Ernest Augustus I of Hanover
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Ernest Augustus I

Portrait by George Dawe, 1828
King of Hanover
Reign	20 June 1837 – 18 November 1851 (14 years, 151 days)
Predecessor	William IV
Successor	George V
Duke of Cumberland and Teviotdale;
Earl of Armagh
Successor	George V of Hanover
Spouse	Frederica of Mecklenburg-Strelitz
Issue
George V of Hanover
House	House of Hanover
Father	George III of the United Kingdom
Mother	Charlotte of Mecklenburg-Strelitz
Born	5 June 1771
Buckingham House, London
Died	18 November 1851 (aged 80)
Hanover
Burial	Herrenhausen Gardens, Hanover
Signature	
Ernest Augustus I (5 June 1771 – 18 November 1851) was King of Hanover from 20 June 1837 until his death. He was the fifth son and eighth child of George III, who reigned in both the United Kingdom and Hanover. As a fifth son, initially Ernest seemed unlikely to become a monarch, but Salic Law, which barred women from the succession, applied in Hanover and none of his older brothers had legitimate male issue.
Ernest was born in England, but was sent to Hanover in his adolescence for his education and military training. While serving with Hanoverian forces in Wallonia against Revolutionary France, he received a disfiguring facial wound. In 1799, he was created Duke of Cumberland and Teviotdale. Although his 1815 marriage to the twice-widowed Frederica of Mecklenburg-Strelitz met with the disapproval of his mother, Queen Charlotte, it proved a happy relationship. By 1817, the mad King George III had only one legitimate grandchild, Princess Charlotte of Wales, and when she died in childbirth, Ernest was the senior son to be both married and not estranged from his wife. This gave him some prospect of succeeding to the British throne. However, both of his unmarried older brothers quickly married, and King George's fourth son, Edward, Duke of Kent, fathered the eventual British heir, Princess Victoria of Kent.
Ernest was active in the House of Lords, where he maintained an extremely conservative record. There were persistent allegations (reportedly spread by his political foes) that he had murdered his valet and had fathered a son by his sister, Princess Sophia of the United Kingdom. Before Victoria succeeded to the British Throne, it was rumoured that Ernest intended to murder her and take the Throne himself. When King William IV died on 20 June 1837, Ernest ascended the Hanoverian Throne. Hanover's first ruler to reside in the kingdom since George I, he had a generally successful fourteen-year reign, but excited controversy when he dismissed the Göttingen Seven (including the two Brothers Grimm) from their professorial positions for agitating against his policies.
Contents [hide]
1 Early life (1771–1799)
2 Duke of Cumberland (1799–1837)
2.1 Military commander
2.2 Sellis incident and Weymouth controversy
2.3 Marriage
2.4 Politics and unpopularity
3 King of Hanover (1837–1851)
3.1 Domestic affairs
3.1.1 Constitutional controversy
3.1.2 National development and trade; 1848 crisis
3.2 Relations with Britain
4 Later life, death, and memorial
5 Ancestors
6 References
7 Bibliography
[edit]Early life (1771–1799)



The young Ernest Augustus by Thomas Gainsborough, 1782


Colourized sketch of Ernest by James Gillray, 1799. Unusually, the sketch depicts Ernest's disfigured left profile; most later portraits either show his right profile or omit the disfigurement.
Ernest Augustus, the fifth son of George III and Queen Charlotte, was born at Buckingham House, now part of Buckingham Palace on 5 June 1771. After leaving the nursery, he lived with his two younger brothers, Prince Adolphus (later Duke of Cambridge) and Prince Augustus (later Duke of Sussex), and a tutor in a house on Kew Green, near his parents' residence at Kew Palace.[1] At the age of fifteen, he and his two younger brothers were sent to the University of Göttingen, located in his father's domain of Hanover.[1] Though the King never left the United Kingdom in his life, he sent his younger sons to Germany in their adolescence. According to historian John Van der Kiste, this was done to limit the influence Ernest's eldest brother George, Prince of Wales, who was leading an extravagant lifestyle, would have over his younger brothers.[2] Prince Ernest proved an apt student, and after being tutored privately for a year, while learning German, attended lectures at the University. Though King George ordered that the princes' household be run along military lines, and that they follow university rules, the town merchants proved willing to extend credit to the princes, and all three fell into debt.[3]
In 1790, Ernest asked his father for permission to train with Prussian forces. Instead, in January 1791, he and Prince Adolphus were sent to Hanover to receive military training under the supervision of Field Marshal Wilhelm von Freytag. Before leaving Göttingen, Ernest penned a formal letter of thanks to the university, and wrote to his father, "I should be one of the most ungrateful of men if ever I was forgetful of all I owe to Göttingen & its professors."[4]
Ernest learned cavalry drill and tactics under Captain von Linsinger of the Queen's Light Dragoons, and proved to be an excellent horseman as well as a good shot.[5] After only two months of training, von Freytag was so impressed by the Prince's progress that he gave him a place in the cavalry as captain. Ernest was supposed to receive infantry training, but the King, also impressed by his son's prowess, allowed him to remain with the cavalry.[6]
In March 1792, the King commissioned Prince Ernest Augustus as a colonel in the 9th Hanoverian Light Dragoons.[7] The Prince served in the Low Countries in the War of the First Coalition, under his elder brother Frederick, Duke of York, then commander of the combined British, Hanoverian and Austrian forces. Seeing action near the Walloon town of Tournai in August 1793, he sustained a sabre wound to the head,[8] which resulted in a disfiguring scar.[9] During the Battle of Tourcoing in northern France on 18 May 1794 his left arm was injured by a cannonball which passed close by him. In the days after the battle, the sight in his left eye faded. In June, he was sent to Britain to convalesce, his first stay there since 1786.[8]
Ernest resumed his duties in early November, by now promoted to major-general.[10] He hoped his new rank would bring him a corps or brigade command, but none was forthcoming as Allied armies retreated slowly through the Netherlands towards Germany.[11] By February 1795, they had reached Hanover. Ernest remained in Hanover over the next year, at several unimportant postings. He had requested a return home to seek treatment for his eye, but it was not until early 1796 that the King agreed and allowed Ernest to return to Britain.[12] In Britain, Prince Ernest consulted the noted eye doctor, Wathen Waller, but Waller apparently found the condition inoperable, as no operation took place.[13] Once in Britain, Ernest repeatedly sought to be allowed to join British forces on the Continent, even threatening to join the Yeomanry as a private, but both the King and the Duke of York refused. Ernest did not want to rejoin Hanoverian forces, as the Hanoverians were not then involved in the fighting. In addition, von Freytag was seriously ill, and Ernest was unwilling to serve under his likely successor, General von Wallmoden.[14]
[edit]Duke of Cumberland (1799–1837)

[edit]Military commander


1802 drawing of Ernest, Duke of Cumberland, by Henry Edridge, who has omitted Ernest's disfiguring scar.
On 23 April 1799, George III created Prince Ernest Augustus Duke of Cumberland and Teviotdale and Earl of Armagh.[15] Though he was made a lieutenant-general, both of British and Hanoverian forces,[16] he remained in England, and, with a seat in the House of Lords, entered politics. Ernest had extreme Tory views, and soon became a leader of the right of the party.[17] King George had feared that Ernest, like some of his older brothers, would display Whig tendencies. Reassured on that point, in 1801, the King had Ernest conduct the negotiations which led to the formation of the Addington Government.[18] In February 1802, King George granted his son the colonelcy of the 27th Light Dragoons, a post which offered the option of transfer to the colonelcy of the 15th Light Dragoons when a vacancy developed. A vacancy promptly occurred and the Duke became the colonel of the 15th Light Dragoons in March 1802. Although the post could have been a sinecure, Ernest involved himself in the affairs of the regiment and led it on manoeuvres.[19]
In early 1803, the Duke of York appointed Ernest as commander of the Severn District, in charge of the forces in and around the Severn Estuary. When war with France broke out again after the Peace of Amiens, the elder Duke appointed Ernest to the more important Southwest District, comprising Hampshire, Dorset and Wiltshire. Though Ernest would have preferred command of the King's German Legion, composed mostly of expatriates from French-occupied Hanover, he accepted the post. The Duke of Cumberland increased the defences on the South Coast, especially around the town of Weymouth, where his father often spent time in the summer.[20]


Ernest Augustus in an 1823 miniature based on an 1802 portrait by William Beechey.
The 1800 Acts of Union had given Ireland representation in Parliament, but existing law prevented the Irish Catholics from serving there because of their religion. "Catholic emancipation" was a major political issue of the first years of the 19th century. The Duke of Cumberland was a strong opponent of giving political rights to Catholics, believing that emancipation would be a violation of the King's Coronation Oath to uphold Anglicanism, and spoke out in the House of Lords against emancipation.[21] Protestant Irish organisations supported the Duke; he was elected Chancellor of the University of Dublin in 1805[22] and Grand Master of the Orange Lodges two years later.[23]
The Duke repeatedly sought a post with Allied forces fighting against France, but was sent to the Continent only as an observer. In 1807, he advocated sending British troops to join with the Prussians and Swedes and attack the French at Stralsund (today, in northeastern Germany). The Greville government refused to send forces. Shortly afterwards, the government fell, and the new Prime Minister, the Duke of Portland, agreed to send Ernest with 20,000 troops. However, they were sent too late: the French defeated Prussia and Sweden at the Battle of Stralsund before Ernest and his forces could reach the town.[24]
[edit]Sellis incident and Weymouth controversy
In the early hours of 31 May 1810, Ernest, by his written account, was struck in the head several times while asleep in bed, awakening him. He ran for the door, where he was wounded in the leg by a sabre. He called for help, and one of his valets, Cornelius Neale, responded and aided him. Neale raised the alarm, and the household soon realised that Ernest's other valet, Joseph Sellis, was not among them, and that the door to Sellis's room was locked. The lock was forced, and Sellis was discovered with his throat freshly cut, a wound apparently self-inflicted.[25] Ernest received several serious wounds during the apparent attack, and required over a month to recover from his injuries.[26] The social reformer and anti-monarchist Francis Place managed to get on the inquest jury and became its foreman. Place went to the office of a barrister friend to study inquest law, and aggressively questioned witnesses. Place also insisted the inquest be opened to the public and press, and so cowed the coroner that he basically ran the inquest himself. Nevertheless, the jury returned a unanimous verdict of suicide against Sellis.[27]


A George Cruikshank cartoon mocking Ernest at the 1815 defeat of his increased allowance. The brown section at lower right covers an image of the ghost of Sellis (visible if enlarged), who hints at the Duke's involvement in his death (Cruikshank self-censored most copies for fear of a libel suit).[28]
Much of the public blamed Ernest for Sellis's death.[29] The more extreme Whig papers, anti-royal pamphleteers, and caricaturists all offered nefarious explanations for Sellis's death, in which the Duke was to blame.[30] Some stories had the Duke cuckolding Sellis, with the attack as retaliation, or Sellis killed for finding Ernest and Mrs. Sellis in bed together.[29] Others suggested that the Duke was the lover of either Sellis or Neale, and that blackmail had played a part in the death.[31] Both Roger Fulford and John Van der Kiste, who wrote books about George III's children, ascribe part of the animus and fear towards the Duke to the fact that he did not conduct love affairs in public, as did his older brothers. According to them, the public feared what vices might be going on behind the locked doors of the Duke's house, and assumed the worst.[32][33]
In early 1813, Ernest was involved in political scandal during an election contest in Weymouth following the general election the previous year. The Duke was shown to be one of three trustees who were able to dictate who would represent Weymouth in Parliament. It being considered improper for a peer to interfere in a Commons election, there was considerable controversy, and the Government sent Ernest to Europe as an observer to accompany Hanoverian troops, which were again engaged in war against France.[34] Though he saw no action, Ernest was present at the Battle of Leipzig, a major victory for the Allies.[35]
[edit]Marriage
Ernest met and fell in love in mid-1813 with his first cousin, Frederica of Mecklenburg-Strelitz, wife of Frederick William, Prince of Solms-Braunfels and widow of Prince Louis of Prussia. The two agreed to wed if Frederica became free to marry. Her marriage to Frederick William had not been a success; her husband, seeing the marriage was beyond hope, agreed to a divorce, but his sudden death in 1814 removed the necessity. Some considered the death too convenient, and suspected the princess of poisoning her husband.[36] Queen Charlotte opposed the marriage: before the princess had married Frederick William, she had jilted Ernest's brother, the Duke of Cambridge, after the engagement was announced.[37]
Following the marriage in Germany on 29 May 1815, Queen Charlotte refused to receive her new daughter-in-law,[38] nor would the Queen attend the resolemnisation of the Cumberlands' marriage at Kew, which Ernest's four older brothers attended. The Prince of Wales (now Prince Regent) found the Cumberlands' presence in Britain embarrassing, and offered him money and the Governorship of Hanover if they would leave for the Continent. Ernest refused, and the Cumberlands divided their time between Kew and St. James's Palace for the next three years. The Queen remained obstinate in her refusal to receive Frederica.[39] Despite these family troubles, the Cumberlands had a happy marriage.[40] The Government of Lord Liverpool asked Parliament to increase the Duke's allowance by ₤6,000 per year in 1815, so he could meet increased expenses due to his marriage. The Duke's involvement in the Weymouth election became an issue, and the bill failed by one vote.[41] Liverpool tried again in 1817; this time the bill failed by seven votes.[42]
At the time of the Duke's marriage in 1815, it seemed to have little dynastic significance to Britain. Princess Charlotte of Wales, only child of the Prince Regent, was the King's only legitimate grandchild. The young Princess was expected to have children who would secure the British succession, especially after she married Prince Leopold of Saxe-Coburg-Saalfeld in 1816.[43] Both the Prince Regent and the Duke of York were married but estranged from their wives, while the next two brothers, the Dukes of Clarence and Kent, were unmarried.[44] On 6 November 1817, Princess Charlotte died after delivering a stillborn son. King George was left with twelve surviving children, and no surviving legitimate grandchildren.[45] Most of the unmarried royal dukes hurriedly sought out suitable brides and hastened to the altar, hoping to father the heir to the throne.[44]
Seeing little prospect of the Queen giving in and receiving her daughter-in-law, the Cumberlands moved to Germany in 1818. They had difficulty living within their means in Britain, and the cost of living was much lower in Germany.[46] Queen Charlotte died on 17 November 1818, but the Cumberlands remained in Germany, living principally in Berlin, where the Duchess had relatives.[47] In 1817, the Duchess had a stillborn daughter; in 1819 she gave birth to a boy, Prince George of Cumberland. The Duke occasionally visited England, where he stayed with his eldest brother, who in 1820 succeeded to the British and Hanoverian Thrones as George IV.[48] George III's fourth son, Edward, Duke of Kent, died six days before his father, but left a daughter, Princess Victoria of Kent.[49] With the death of George III, Ernest became fourth in line to the British Throne, following the Duke of York (who would die without legitimate issue in 1827), the Duke of Clarence, and Princess Victoria.[50]
[edit]Politics and unpopularity


Ernest Augustus I wearing the robes of a Knight Commander of the Order of St Patrick
In 1826, Parliament finally voted to increase Ernest's allowance. The Liverpool Government had argued that the Duke needed an increased allowance to pay for Prince George's education; even so, it was opposed by many Whigs.[51] The bill, which passed the House of Commons 120–97, required Prince George to live in England if the Duke was to receive the money.[52]
In 1828, Ernest was staying with the King at Windsor Castle when severe disturbances broke out in Ireland among Catholics. The Duke was an ardent supporter of the Protestant cause in Ireland, and returned to Berlin in August, believing that the Government, led by the Duke of Wellington, would deal firmly with the Irish.[53] In January 1829, the Wellington Government announced that it would introduce a Catholic emancipation bill to conciliate the Irish. Disregarding a request from Wellington that he remain abroad, Ernest returned to London, and was one of the leaders against the Catholic Relief Act 1829, influencing King George against the bill.[54] Within days of his arrival, the King instructed the officers of his Household to vote against the Bill. Hearing of this, Wellington told the King that he must resign as Prime Minister unless the King could assure him of complete support. The King initially accepted Wellington's resignation, and Ernest attempted to put together a government united against Catholic emancipation. Though such a government would have considerable support in the House of Lords, it would have little support in the Commons, and Ernest abandoned his attempt. The King recalled Wellington. The bill passed the Lords and became law.[55]
The Wellington Government hoped that Ernest would return to Germany, but he moved his wife and son to Britain in 1829. The Times reported that they would live at Windsor in the "Devil's Tower"; instead, the Duke reopened his house at Kew.[56] They settled there as rumours flew that Thomas Garth, thought to be the illegitimate son of Ernest's sister Princess Sophia, had been fathered by Ernest. It was also said that Ernest had blackmailed the King by threatening to expose this secret, though Van der Kiste points out that Ernest would have been ill-advised to blackmail with a secret which, if exposed, would destroy him.[57] These rumours were spread as Ernest journeyed to London to fight against Catholic emancipation. Whig politician and diarist Thomas Creevey wrote about the Garth rumour in mid-February, and there is some indication the rumours began with Princess Lieven, wife of the Russian ambassador.[58]
Newspapers also reported, in July 1829, that the Duke had been thrown out of Lord Lyndhurst's house for assaulting his wife Sarah, Lady Lyndhurst.[57] In early 1830, a number of newspapers printed articles hinting that Ernest was having an affair with Lady Graves, a mother of fifteen now past fifty.[59] In February 1830, Lord Graves wrote a note to his wife expressing his confidence in her innocence, then cut his own throat. Two days after Lord Graves's death (and the day after the inquest), The Times printed an article connecting Lord Graves's death with Sellis's. After being shown the suicide note, The Times withdrew its implication there might be a connection between the two deaths. Nonetheless, many believed the Duke responsible for the suicide—or guilty of a second murder.[60] The Duke later stated that he had been "accused of every crime in the decalogue".[61] Ernest's biographer, Anthony Bird, states that while there is no proof, he has no doubt that the rumours against the Duke were spread by the Whigs for political ends.[62] Another biographer, Geoffrey Willis, pointed out that no scandal had attached itself to the Duke during the period of over a decade when he resided in Germany; it was only when he announced his intent to return to Britain that "a campaign of unparalleled viciousness" began against him.[63] According to Bird, Ernest was the most unpopular man in England.[64]


Political cartoon supporting the Reform Act; King William sits above the clouds, surrounded by Whig politicians, below Britannia and the British Lion cause the Tories (Ernest, second from left) to flee.
The Duke's influence at Court was ended by the death of George IV in June 1830 and the succession of the Duke of Clarence as William IV. Wellington wrote that "The effect of the King's death will ... be to put an end to the Duke of Cumberland's political character and power in this country entirely".[65] King William lacked legitimate children (two girls having died in infancy)[50] and Ernest was now heir in Hanover, since the British heir, Victoria, as a female could not inherit there. William realized that so long as the Duke maintained a power base at Windsor, he could wield unwanted influence. The Duke was Gold Stick as head of the Household Cavalry; William made the Duke's post responsible to the Commander in Chief rather than to the King, and an insulted Ernest, outraged at the thought of having to report to an officer less senior than himself, resigned. King William again emerged triumphant when the new Queen, Adelaide of Saxe-Meiningen, wished to quarter her horses in the stables customarily used by the consort, but which were then occupied by Ernest's horses. Ernest initially refused the King's order to remove the horses, but gave in when told that William's grooms would remove them if Ernest did not move them voluntarily.[65] However, Ernest and William remained friendly throughout the latter's seven-year reign.[66] Ernest's house at Kew was too small for his family; the King gave the Duke and Duchess lifetime residence in a nearby, larger house by the entrance to Kew Gardens.[67] Ernest opposed the Reform Act 1832, and was one of the "diehard" peers who voted against the bill on its final reading when most Tories abstained under threat of seeing the House of Lords flooded with Whig peers.[68]
Ernest was the subject of more allegations in 1832, when two young women accused him of trying to ride them down as they walked near Hammersmith. The Duke had not left his grounds at Kew on the day in question, and was able to ascertain that the rider was one of his equerries, who professed not to have seen the women. Nevertheless, newspapers continued to print references to the incident, suggesting that Ernest had done what the women stated, and was cravenly trying to push blame on another. The same year, the Duke sued for libel after a book appeared accusing him of having his valet Neale kill Sellis, and the jury found against the author.[69] Also in 1832, the Cumberlands suffered tragedy, as young Prince George went blind. The Prince had been blind in one eye from infancy; an accident at age thirteen took the sight of the other. Ernest had hoped his son might marry Princess Victoria and keep the British and Hanoverian Thrones united, but the handicap made it unlikely George could win Princess Victoria's hand, and raised questions about whether he should succeed in Hanover.[70]
The Duke spent William's reign in the House of Lords, where he was assiduous in his attendance. Wrote newspaper editor James Grant, "He is literally—the door-keeper of course excepted—the first man in the House, and the last out of it. And this not merely generally, but every night."[71] Grant, in his observations of the leading members of the House of Lords, indicated that the Duke was not noted for his oratory (he delivered no speech longer than five minutes) and had a voice that was difficult to understand, though, "his manner is most mild and conciliatory."[71] Grant denigrated the Duke's intellect and influence, but stated that the Duke had indirect influence over several members, and that, "he is by no means so bad a tactician as his opponents suppose."[72]
Controversy arose in 1836 over the Orange Lodges. The lodges (which took anti-Catholic views) were said to be ready to rise and try to put the Duke of Cumberland on the Throne on the death of King William. According to Joseph Hume, speaking in the House of Commons, Princess Victoria was to be passed over on the grounds of her age, sex, and incapacity.[73] The Commons passed a resolution calling for the dissolution of the lodges. When the matter reached the Lords, the Duke defended himself, saying of Princess Victoria, "I would shed the last drop of my blood for my niece."[74] The Duke indicated that the Orange Lodge members were loyal and were willing to dissolve the lodges in Great Britain. According to Bird, this incident was the source of the widespread rumours that the Duke intended to murder Princess Victoria and take the British Throne for himself.[75]
[edit]King of Hanover (1837–1851)

[edit]Domestic affairs
[edit]Constitutional controversy
On 20 June 1837, King William died, and Princess Victoria became Queen of the United Kingdom. Ernest became the King of Hanover. On 28 June 1837, King Ernest entered his new domain, passing under a triumphal arch.[76] For the first time in over a century, Hanover would have a ruler living there.[77] Many Hanoverians were of a liberal perspective, and would have preferred the popular viceroy, the Duke of Cambridge, to become king, but both of Ernest's younger brothers refused to lend themselves to any movement by which they would become king rather than their elder brother. According to Roger Fulford in his study of George III's younger sons, Royal Dukes, "In 1837, King Ernest was the only male descendant of George III who was willing and able to continue the connection with Hanover."[78]


1846 thaler coin depicting King Ernest Augustus
Hanover had received its first constitution, granted by the Prince Regent, in 1819; this did little more than denote Hanover's change from an electorate to a kingdom, granted by the Congress of Vienna. The Duke of Cambridge, as King William's viceroy in Hanover, recommended a thorough reorganisation of the Hanoverian government. William IV had given his consent to a new constitution in 1833; the Duke of Cumberland's consent was neither asked nor received, and he had formally protested against the constitution's adoption without his consent.[79] One provision of the constitution transferred the Hanoverian Domains (the equivalent of the British Crown Estate) from the sovereign to the state, eroding the monarch's power.[76]
Immediately upon his arrival in Hanover, the King dissolved the parliament which had been convened under the disputed constitution. On 5 July, he proclaimed the suspension of the constitution, on the ground that his consent had not been asked, and that it did not meet the kingdom's needs.[79] On 1 November 1837, the King issued a patent, declaring the constitution void, but upholding all laws passed under it.[80] The 1819 constitution was restored. The Crown Prince, Prince George, endorsed the action.[81]
In carrying the King's patent into effect, the Cabinet required all officeholders (including professors at Göttingen University) to renew their oaths of allegiance to the King. Seven professors (including the two Brothers Grimm) refused to take the oaths, and agitated for others to protest against the King's decree. Since they did not take the oaths, the seven lost their positions, and the King expelled the three most responsible (including Jacob Grimm) from Hanover.[80] Only one of the seven, orientalist Heinrich Ewald was a citizen of Hanover and he was not expelled.[82] In the final years of the King's reign, the three were invited to return.[83]
The King wrote of the incident to his brother-in-law, Frederick William III of Prussia, "If each of these seven gentlemen had addressed a letter to me expressing his opinion, I would have had no cause to take exception to their conduct. But to call a meeting and publish their opinions even before the Government had received their protest—that is what they have done and that I cannot allow."[84] Ernest received a deputation of Göttingen citizens, who, fearing student unrest, applauded the dismissals. However, he was widely criticised in Europe, especially in Britain.[85] In the House of Commons, MP Colonel Thomas Perronet Thompson proposed to Parliament that if the as-yet-childless Queen Victoria died, making Ernest the British King, Parliament should declare that King Ernest had forfeited all rights to the British Throne by his actions.[86]
A more significant protest against the revocation of the 1833 constitution was the refusal of a number of towns to appoint parliamentary deputies. However, by 1840, a sufficient number of deputies had been appointed for the King to summon Parliament, which met for two weeks in August, approving a modified version of the 1819 constitution, passing a budget, and sending a vote of thanks to the King. The Parliament met again the following year, passed a three-year budget, and adjourned again.[87]
[edit]National development and trade; 1848 crisis
At the time the King took the throne, the city of Hanover was a densely packed residential town, and did not rise to the grand style of many German capitals. Once the political crises of the first years of his reign had subsided, he set out to remedy this state of affairs.[88] Ernest's support led to gas lighting in the city streets of Hanover, up-to-date sanitation and the development of a new residential quarter. He had the plans altered in 1841, after Queen Frederica's death, to leave standing the Altes Palais, where the two had lived since arriving in Hanover.[40] Ernest's interest in and support of the railroads led to Hanover becoming a major rail junction, much to the nation's benefit.[40] However, when court architect Georg Ludwig Friedrich Laves in 1837 proposed the building of an opera house in Hanover, the King initially refused, calling the proposal "this utterly absurd idea of building a court theatre in the middle of this green field".[89] The King finally gave his consent in 1844, and the opera house opened in 1852, a year after the King's death.[89]


Ernest Augustus portrait, circa 1850
Every week, the King travelled with his secretary to different parts of his kingdom, and anyone could lay a petition before him—although Ernest had petitions screened by the secretary so he would not have to deal with frivolous complaints.[90] Ernest opened high ministerial positions to those of any class, securing the services of several ministers who would not have been eligible without this reform.[91] Though the King had, while Duke of Cumberland, fought against Catholic emancipation, he made no objection to Catholics in government service in Hanover, and even visited their churches. Ernest explained this by stating that there were no historical reasons to restrict Catholics in Hanover, and there had been in the United Kingdom.[92] He continued to oppose admission of Jews into the British Parliament, but gave Jews in Hanover equal rights.[93]
The King supported a postal union and common currency among the German states, but opposed the Prussian-led customs union, the Zollverein, fearing that it would lead to Prussian dominance and the end of Hanover as an independent state. Instead, the King supported the Steuerverein, which Hanover and other western German states had formed in 1834. When the Steuerverein treaties came up for renewal in 1841, Brunswick pulled out of the union and joined the Zollverein, greatly weakening Hanover's position, especially since Brunswick had enclaves within Hanover. Ernest was able to postpone the enclaves' entry into the Zollverein, and when a trade war began, was able to outlast Brunswick. In 1845, Brunswick, Hanover, and Prussia signed a trade agreement. In 1850, Ernest reluctantly permitted Hanover to join the Zollverein, though the entry was on favourable terms.[94] Ernest's forebodings about Prussia were warranted; in 1866, fifteen years after his death, Hanover chose the Austrian side in the Austro-Prussian War, was defeated, and was annexed by Prussia.[95]
Hanover was little affected by the revolutions of 1848; a few small disturbances were put down by the cavalry without bloodshed.[96] When agitators arrived from Berlin at the end of May 1848, and there were demonstrations outside the King's palace, Ernest sent out the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister warned that if the demonstrators made any inappropriate demands on the King, Ernest would pack up his things and leave for Britain, taking the Crown Prince with him. This would leave the country to the mercy of expansionist Prussia, and the threat put an end to the agitation. Afterwards, the King granted a new constitution, somewhat more liberal than the 1819 document.[97]
[edit]Relations with Britain


British "To Hanover" token or "Cumberland Jack," marking Ernest's departure from Britain. These pieces were struck through much of the 19th century as whist counters and were sometimes passed as real gold coins to the unwary.[98]
British Royalty
House of Hanover

George III
   George IV
   Frederick, Duke of York
   William IV
   Charlotte, Queen of Württemberg
   Edward, Duke of Kent
   Princess Augusta Sophia
   Elizabeth, Landgravine of Hesse-Homburg
   Ernest Augustus I of Hanover
   Augustus Frederick, Duke of Sussex
   Adolphus, Duke of Cambridge
   Mary, Duchess of Gloucester
   Princess Sophia
   Prince Octavius
   Prince Alfred
   Princess Amelia
Grandchildren
   Charlotte, Princess Leopold of Saxe-Coburg-Saalfeld
   Princess Charlotte of Clarence
   Princess Elizabeth of Clarence
   Victoria
   George V, King of Hanover
   George, Duke of Cambridge
   Augusta, Grand Duchess of Mecklenburg-Strelitz
   Mary Adelaide, Duchess of Teck
Ernest Augustus is supposed to have asked the advice of the Duke of Wellington as to what course he should take after Victoria's accession, with Wellington supposedly saying "Go before you are pelted out."[99] However, Bird dismisses this story as unlikely, given Wellington's customary respect to royalty and the fact that Ernest had little choice in what to do—he had to repair to his kingdom as quickly as possible.[100] One decision the new King did have to make was whether, in his capacity as Duke of Cumberland, to swear allegiance to Victoria in the House of Lords. Shortly after William's death, Ernest heard from Lord Lyndhurst that Lord Cottenham, the Lord Chancellor, had stated that he would refuse to administer the Oath of Allegiance to the King, as a foreign Sovereign. The King hurriedly appeared in the House of Lords, before his departure for Hanover, and subscribed to the Oath before the Chief Clerk as a matter of routine.[101] Ernest was heir presumptive to his niece until the birth of Queen Victoria's daughter, also named Victoria, in November 1840. The Lord Privy Seal, Lord Clarendon, wrote, "What the country cares about is to have a life more, whether male or female, between the succession and the King of Hanover."[102]
Almost immediately upon going to Hanover, the King became involved in a dispute with his niece. Victoria, who had a strained relationship with her mother, the Duchess of Kent, wanted to give the Duchess accommodation near her, for the sake of appearances—but not too near her. To that end, she asked the King to give up his apartments at St. James's Palace in favour of the Duchess. The King, wishing to retain apartments in London in anticipation of frequent visits to England, and reluctant to give way in favour of a woman who had frequently fought with his brother, King William, declined, and Victoria angrily rented a house for her mother. At a time when the young Queen was trying to pay off her father's debts, she saw this as unnecessary expense.[103] Her ill-feeling towards the King increased when he refused, and advised his two surviving brothers to similarly refuse, to give precedence to her intended spouse, Albert of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha. Ernest argued that the standing of the various royal families had been settled at the Congress of Vienna, and the King of Hanover should not have to yield to one whom he described as a "paper Royal Highness".[104] The act which naturalised Albert as a British subject left the question of his precedence unresolved.[104]
Matters came to a head when Ernest returned for what would prove to be his only visit to England as King of Hanover, in 1843. He was welcomed warmly, everywhere but at the Palace.[105] At the wedding of Princess Augusta of Cambridge, he attempted to insist on a superior place to that of Prince Albert. The 50-years-younger prince settled things with what Albert described as a "strong push," and carefully wrote his name on the certificate under the Queen's, so close to his wife's as to leave no space for the King's signature.[106] The King apparently held no grudge, as he invited the Prince for a stroll in the park. When Albert demurred on the grounds that they might be jostled by crowds, the King replied, "When I lived here I was quite as unpopular as you are and they never bothered me."[107] Shortly after the wedding, the King injured himself in a fall, with Albert writing to his brother, "Happily he fell over some stones in Kew and damaged some ribs." This injury spared him further contact with Victoria and Albert.[108] During his visit, the King found time to take his place as Duke of Cumberland in the House of Lords. Victoria recorded in her journal that the King had stated when asked if he would speak in the Lords, "No, I shall not, unless the Devil prompts me!"[109] The Queen also recorded that though King Ernest greatly enjoyed listening to the debates, he did not himself speak.[109]
The monarchs engaged in one more battle—over jewels left by Queen Charlotte. Victoria, who possessed them, took the position that they belonged to the British Crown. King Ernest maintained that they were to go to the heir male, that is, himself. The matter was arbitrated, and just as the arbitrators were about to announce a decision in Hanover's favour, one of the arbitrators died, voiding the decision. Despite the King's request for a new panel, Victoria refused to permit one during the King's lifetime, and took every opportunity to wear the jewels, causing the King to write to his friend, Lord Strangford, "The little Queen looked very fine, I hear, loaded down with my diamonds." The King's son and heir, King George V, pressed the matter, and in 1858, after another decision in Hanover's favour, the jewels were turned over to the Hanoverian ambassador.[110]
The King made a point of welcoming British visitors, and when one Englishwoman told him that she had been lost in the city, the King denied that this was possible, as "the whole country is no larger than a fourpenny bit."[111]
[edit]Later life, death, and memorial



Statue of Ernest Augustus I in front of the Hannover Hauptbahnhof. Most bystanders are "under the tail".
In 1851, the King undertook a number of journeys around Germany. He accepted an invitation from the Prussian Queen to visit Charlottenburg Palace, near Berlin.[112] He visited Mecklenburg for the christening of the Grand Duke's son, and Luneburg to inspect his old regiment. In June Ernest celebrated his 80th birthday by playing host to the King of Prussia. Late that summer, he visited Göttingen, where he opened a new hospital and was given a torchlight procession.[113]
The King continued his interest in British affairs, and wrote to Lord Strangford about the Great Exhibition of 1851:
The folly and absurdity of the Queen in allowing this trumpery must strike every sensible and well-thinking mind, and I am astonished the ministers themselves do not insist on her at least going to Osborne during the Exhibition, as no human being can possibly answer for what may occur on the occasion. The idea ... must shock every honest and well-meaning Englishman. But it seems everything is conspiring to lower us in the eyes of Europe.[114]
The King died on 18 November 1851 after an illness of about a month. He was mourned greatly in Hanover; less so in England where The Times omitted the customary black border to its front page and claimed "the good that can be said of the Royal dead is little or none."[115] Both he and Queen Frederica rest in a mausoleum in the Herrenhausen Gardens.[116]
A large equestrian statue of King Ernest Augustus may be found in a square named after him in front of the railway station in Hanover, inscribed with his name and the words (in German) "To the father of the nation from his loyal people." It is a popular meeting place; in the local phrase, people arrange to meet unterm Schwanz or "under the tail" (that is, of the horse which the King rides).[117]
Although The Times denigrated Ernest's career as Duke of Cumberland, it did speak well of his time as King of Hanover, and of his success in keeping Hanover stable in 1848:
Above all, he possessed a resolute decision of character, which, however unfortunately it may have operated under different conditions, appeared to extraordinary advantage at the crisis of continental thrones. Bewildered by the revolutionary din, and oscillating ignominiously between fear and rage, resistance and concession, the clique of crowned heads suffered greatly by contrast with a Sovereign who at least knew his own mind, and was prepared to abide by his opinions. In the European convulsions, therefore, King Ernest maintained the stability of his throne and the tranquillity of his people without damage from revolution or reaction. As Kings, indeed, are computed on the continent, he was an able and even a popular Monarch, and his memory may find, perhaps, in his ancestral dominions a sympathy which it would be vain to bespeak for it in the scenes of his manhood or the land of his birth.[118]

William McGregor
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
For the Canadian businessman and political figure, see William McGregor (politician)
For the Governor of Newfoundland and Governor of Queensland, see William MacGregor.
William McGregor

William McGregor, founder of the Football League
Born	13 April 1846
Braco, Perthshire
Died	20 December 1911 (aged 65)
Birmingham
Nationality	Scottish
Occupation	Draper, Director of Aston Villa
Spouse	Jessie McGregor[1]
Children	William McGregor, Jessie McGregor
William McGregor (13 April 1846 – 20 December 1911)[1][2] was an association football administrator in the Victorian era, who is regarded as the founder of the Football League, the first organised football league in the world.
After moving from Perthshire to Birmingham to set up business as a draper, McGregor became involved with local football club Aston Villa, which he helped to establish as one of the leading teams in England. He served the club for over twenty years in various capacities, including president, director and chairman. In 1888, frustrated by the regular cancellation of Villa's matches, McGregor organised a meeting of representatives of England's leading clubs, which led to the formation of the Football League, giving member clubs a guaranteed fixture list each season. This was instrumental in the transition of football from an amateur pastime to a professional business.
McGregor served as both chairman and president of the Football League and was also chairman of the Football Association (the FA). He was recognised by the FA for his service to the game shortly before his death in 1911, and was posthumously honoured by the local football authorities and Aston Villa.
Contents [hide]
1 Personal life
2 Association with Aston Villa
3 Founder of the Football League
4 Death and legacy
5 Notes
6 References
[edit]Personal life

Born in Braco in Perthshire, Scotland, McGregor first became interested in football after watching a match between locals and visiting artisans at Ardoch.[3][4] He served an apprenticeship as a draper in Perth, and in 1870, following the example of his brother Peter, moved to Birmingham,[4][5] and opened his own drapery business in Aston, an area just outside the city.[6] Upon his arrival in the Midlands he became involved with a local football club, Calthorpe, which had been formed by a fellow Scot, Campbell Orr.[4][7] McGregor was enthusiastic enough about the game to arrange for his shop to close early on Saturdays to allow him to watch matches, and he later sold football kits at the shop, which became a popular meeting place for football enthusiasts.[7]
McGregor was married to Jessie, and the couple had a daughter and a son, also named Jessie and William.[7][8] A teetotaller, McGregor was a supporter of the Temperance movement,[9] and was active in the local branch of the Liberal Party until his membership lapsed in 1882 due to the increasing amount of time he devoted to football.[10] He was involved in the early attempts to establish a baseball league in the UK, and serving as the honorary treasurer of the Baseball Association of Great Britain and Ireland.[11] Despite his commitment to sport, he retained his drapery business throughout his life.[12]
[edit]Association with Aston Villa



The Aston Villa team of 1896–97 with the First Division Championship and the FA Cup
In 1877, McGregor was invited to become a committee member of Aston Villa, a club formed three years earlier. He also umpired matches for the club.[A][7][13] At the time the club played at Aston Park, close to the premises of McGregor's business.[14] He became interested in joining Villa due to the strong Scottish contingent in the club's ranks,[4] the team's exciting style of play, and the club's connection to a Wesleyan Chapel.[15] He quickly assumed the post of club administrator,[2] helping the impecunious club to survive its financial troubles. After some of Aston Villa's possessions were seized by bailiffs, McGregor allowed the club to use his shop as a store to prevent further seizures.[15] Under McGregor's leadership, Aston Villa won their first trophy, the Birmingham Senior Cup, in 1880,[16] shortly after which McGregor became the club's president.[2]
The following year McGregor became a member of the club's board of directors.[2] Villa's standing within the game continued to grow, and in 1887 the club became the first from the Midlands to win the FA Cup, defeating local rivals West Bromwich Albion in the final.[17] In 1895, McGregor became vice-chairman, and went on to become the club's chairman in 1897.[2] During his time at the club he was noted for his organisational skills and ambition,[18] and was responsible for adopting the lion rampant depicted on the Royal Standard of Scotland, as the club's crest.[19]
[edit]Founder of the Football League

As the 1880s progressed, the balance of power within English football began to change. The first national competition, the FA Cup, had previously been dominated by amateur clubs from privileged backgrounds, such as Wanderers and Old Etonians. However the 1883 FA Cup Final saw the first victory by a working-class team, Blackburn Olympic.[20] At this time professionalism was not permitted. Clubs from urban areas in the north were strong advocates of the practice, but the southern amateur teams and the FA authorities were firmly opposed.[20] Though not initially an advocate of professionalism, McGregor came to favour its introduction.[10] By 1885 the issue threatened to split the FA when a group of clubs, predominantly from Lancashire, announced their intention to leave and form a rival British Football Association if professionalism was not accepted.[20] An emergency FA conference was called in response. Representing Aston Villa, McGregor spoke in favour of professionalism, the only delegate from the Midlands to do so, and was one of the few delegates to admit that his club had been paying players.[10] Though not as outspoken as stronger proponents, such as Preston North End's William Sudell, McGregor was well respected.[10] The conference ended with the FA accepting professionalism, although each club was permitted only to pay players who had been born or lived for at least two years within six miles of its home stadium.[20]
Professionalism brought fresh complications for club administrators. Many friendlies were cancelled due to opponents' FA Cup or county cup matches taking precedence or clubs simply failing to honour a fixture in favour of a more lucrative match elsewhere. This made it hard for the clubs to pay players' wages on a regular basis.[21][22] McGregor took action after seeing Villa matches cancelled, to the increasing frustration of the club's fans, on five consecutive Saturdays.[22] On 2 March 1888,[23] he wrote to the committee of his own club, Aston Villa, as well as to those of Blackburn Rovers, Bolton Wanderers, Preston North End and West Bromwich Albion,[24] suggesting the creation of a league competition that would provide a number of guaranteed fixtures for its member clubs each season.[25] Corinthian F.C. founder N. Lane Jackson, writing in 1899, stated that McGregor took his inspiration from the existing league set-up used in American baseball,[11] although McGregor himself cited the County Cricket Championship as his inspiration.[26] McGregor's letter to the clubs read:[25]
Every year it is becoming more and more difficult for football clubs of any standing to meet their friendly engagements and even arrange friendly matches. The consequence is that at the last moment, through cup-tie interference, clubs are compelled to take on teams who will not attract the public.
I beg to tender the following suggestion as a means of getting over the difficulty: that ten or twelve of the most prominent clubs in England combine to arrange home-and-away fixtures each season, the said fixtures to be arranged at a friendly conference about the same time as the International Conference.
This combination might be known as the Association Football Union, and could be managed by representative from each club. Of course, this is in no way to interfere with the National Association; even the suggested matches might be played under cup-tie rules. However, this is a detail.
My object in writing to you at present is merely to draw your attention to the subject, and to suggest a friendly conference to discuss the matter more fully. I would take it as a favour if you would kindly think the matter over, and make whatever suggestions you deem necessary. I am only writing to the following – Blackburn Rovers, Bolton Wanderers, Preston North End, West Bromwich Albion, and Aston Villa, and would like to hear what other clubs you would suggest.
I am, yours very truly, William McGregor (Aston Villa F.C.)
P.S. How would Friday, 23rd March, 1888, suit for the friendly conference at Anderton's Hotel, London?
McGregor chose 23 March as the date of his proposed meeting because it was the day before the FA Cup final and representatives of the country's top clubs would be in London.[22] Representatives from ten clubs attended, including the FA Cup finalists West Bromwich Albion and Preston North End,[27] but it quickly became clear that clubs from the South of England were not interested in McGregor's proposal and none attended. A second meeting was held in Manchester on 17 April, and details concerning the new competition were finalised.[21] McGregor's suggested name for the competition, "The Association Football Union" was rejected as too similar to that of the Rugby Football Union and "The Football League" was chosen, despite McGregor's opposition on the grounds that he felt it might invoke associations with the unpopular Irish Land League.[28] The term English League was avoided, to leave the possibility of future applications from Scottish clubs.[29] McGregor also proposed a rule that only one club from each town should be included. The other founders agreed to this rule, which caused controversy, as it meant Birmingham team Mitchell St. George's were denied membership in favour of McGregor's Aston Villa.[27] Twelve clubs kicked off the first season of League football in September 1888.[30]


John Bentley, McGregor's successor as Football League president, criticised McGregor for his failure to attend many meetings during his later spell as League president.
McGregor served as the first chairman of the League's Management Committee. One of the committee's main jobs was handling issues of discipline, but committee members were not barred from involvement in decisions involving their own clubs. In fact, the first disciplinary meeting saw fines issued to three of the four clubs with representatives on the committee.[31] McGregor was re-elected unopposed in 1891. Earlier he had spoken of his pleasure that "of the 132 matches in which the League clubs have taken part and in which about 300 players have taken the field, not a single fatal accident has to be recorded".[32] A year later he oversaw the expansion of the Football League into two divisions when the rival Football Alliance was merged into the competition, but he relinquished his post later that year due to ill health, which caused him to miss meetings.[33]
After stepping down as chairman, he was unanimously elected to an honorary position of president, a role he kept until 1894, and was named the first-ever life member of the League in 1895.[34] The role was that of a figurehead with little actual authority, but he was used as a mediator to resolve league disagreements.[35] In the second half of the decade McGregor's failure to attend many committee meetings led to criticism from John Bentley, his successor as president. Bentley's criticism achieved the desired effect; from 1899 until his health deteriorated in 1910, McGregor seldom missed a meeting.[36] During this period McGregor was noted for his reserved nature. He was silent for large parts of committee meetings, but would contribute enthusiastically on the occasions he felt his input was necessary.[35]
Between 1888 and 1894 McGregor also served as chairman of The Football Association (the FA), English football's overall governing body, which had existed since 1863.[2] He became known as a football celebrity, writing a weekly column for the Birmingham Gazette and endorsing products such as footballs,[7][35] and a type of football boot which the manufacturer billed as the "McGregor lace-to-toe boot".[37] Though he held many different administrative posts in his lifetime, McGregor never played the sport competitively; his only on-pitch involvement was occasional goalkeeping during Aston Villa practices in the 1870s.[15]
[edit]Death and legacy



The statue of McGregor outside Villa Park
Although McGregor envisaged the League as a friendly union, within which clubs would share ticket revenues and work together in their mutual best interests, the immediate effect of its creation was that football came to be treated as a business for the first time, as opposed to something that players and officials simply regarded as a pastime.[11][22] All the clubs involved experienced significant increases in their turnover, which at Aston Villa, McGregor's own club, increased more than sixfold between 1889 and 1899.[11][22] The wages paid to players, however, remained low due to restrictions imposed by the FA, so clubs were able to use their increased profitability to build larger stadiums and accommodate ever larger crowds of spectators.[38] Although the League initially contained a small number of clubs, all of which were based in the northern half of the country, by the early years of the twentieth century it included clubs from all parts of England. At its peak nearly 100 clubs played in the Football League, and it remained the pre-eminent competition in English football until the 1990s, when the top clubs broke away to form the Premier League.[39] In keeping with McGregor's views on mutual support and co-operation, gate receipts were shared amongst the clubs until the 1980s, which helped to ensure that a select few wealthy clubs were not able to dominate the competition.[40] McGregor himself had little interest in the business aspect of football, and was adamant that the Football League should not challenge the longstanding authority of the FA.[11] The success of the Football League directly inspired the creation of similar competitions in other countries, beginning with Scotland, where the Scottish Football League was formed in 1890.[41]
In May 1910, McGregor was taken ill and later confined to a nursing home.[12] His condition worsened towards the end of 1911. His last public appearance was a committee meeting on 4 December,[37] and he underwent an operation on 19 December. However, after a brief improvement in his condition he relapsed and died the following day.[42] Although a devout Methodist,[12] he is buried in the grounds of a Church of England church, St. Mary's, in the Handsworth district of Birmingham, alongside his wife, who died in 1908.[1] McGregor is remembered as the "father of The Football League",[43] an Aston Villa legend, and a legend of football in general.[44]
Shortly before his death, the FA presented McGregor, who was at that time a vice-president of the association, with a long service medal.[7][45] After his death, Aston Villa dedicated a bed in the children's ward of one of Birmingham's hospitals in his honour, and the Birmingham County Football Association unveiled a commemorative drinking fountain, which is now preserved at Villa Park, current home of his former club.[12] In the modern era, Aston Villa selected him as one of the twelve inaugural members of its Hall of Fame,[14] and named a hospitality suite at Villa Park after him.[46] In 2008, the Aston Villa Supporters' Trust announced plans to further honour him with a bronze statue outside the stadium.[6][47] The statue will be displayed outside the Directors' Entrance of the Trinity Road Stand, and was unveiled on 28 November 2009.[48]

Wikipedia:Featured articles
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Featured articles in Wikipedia

Featured articles are considered to be the best articles in Wikipedia, as determined by Wikipedia's editors. Before being listed here, articles are reviewed at featured article candidates for accuracy, neutrality, completeness, and style according to our featured article criteria. There are 3,066 featured articles out of 3,437,399 articles on the English Wikipedia. Thus, about one in 1,120 articles is listed here. Articles that no longer meet the criteria can be proposed for improvement or removal at featured article review.
A small bronze star icon () on the top right corner of an article's page indicates that the article is featured, unless the appropriate user preference is set. Additionally, if the current article is featured in another language version, a star will appear next to the language page link, in the list on the left of the page (see also featured articles in other languages).
Random featured article
Shortcut:
WP:FA
Featured content:
Featured articles ←
Featured lists
Featured pictures
Featured sounds
Featured portals
Featured topics
Featured article tools:
Featured article criteria
Featured article candidates
Featured article review
Today's featured article
This month's queue
Main page requests
Today's featured article statistics
Featured article log
Featured article statistics
Former featured articles
Contents
Art, architecture and archaeology · Awards, decorations and vexillology · Biology · Business, economics and finance · Chemistry and mineralogy · Computing · Culture and society · Education · Engineering and technology · Food and drink · Geography and places · Geology and geophysics · Health and medicine · History · Language and linguistics · Law · Literature and theatre · Mathematics · Media · Meteorology · Music · Philosophy and psychology · Physics and astronomy · Politics and government · Religion, mysticism and mythology · Royalty, nobility and heraldry · Sport and recreation · Transport · Video gaming · Warfare
Art, architecture and archaeology

7 World Trade Center · Acra (fortress) · Angkor Wat · Anthony Roll · Bronwyn Bancroft · The Battle of Alexander at Issus · Felice Beato · Belton House · Bodiam Castle · Borobudur · Boydell Shakespeare Gallery · Bramall Hall · Matthew Brettingham · Brougham Castle · Buildings and architecture of Bristol · Buildings of Jesus College, Oxford · Buildings of Nuffield College, Oxford · Bruce Castle · Sir William Bruce, 1st Baronet, of Balcaskie · Buckingham Palace · Campbell's Soup Cans · Castle · Catherine de' Medici's building projects · Chicago Board of Trade Building · Clemuel Ricketts Mansion · Cloud Gate · Cottingley Fairies · Crown Fountain · Deconstructivism · Lisa del Giocondo · The Disasters of War · John Douglas (architect) · Dürer's Rhinoceros · El Greco · El Lissitzky · Eshmun Temple · Exelon Pavilions · An Experiment on a Bird in the Air Pump · Adolfo Farsari · Fort Ticonderoga · Fountain of Time · The Four Stages of Cruelty · Four Times of the Day · Freedom Monument · Caspar David Friedrich · Funerary art · Funerary Monument to Sir John Hawkwood · The Garden of Earthly Delights · Greece runestones · Harris Theater (Chicago, Illinois) · Heian Palace · Ima Hogg · Holkham Hall · House with Chimaeras · Hoxne Hoard · Hoysala architecture · IG Farben Building · Jay Pritzker Pavilion · Joseph Priestley House · Paul Kane · André Kertész · Las Meninas · Lindow Man · Maiden Castle, Dorset · Mary Rose · McCormick Tribune Plaza & Ice Rink · Michigan State Capitol · Millennium Park · Henry Moore · Sylvanus Morley · Benjamin Mountfort · Museum of Bad Art · Wintjiya Napaltjarri · Makinti Napanangka · Norton Priory · Oregon State Capitol · Palazzo Pitti · Palladian architecture · Robert Peake the elder · I. M. Pei · Pennsylvania State Capitol · Francis Petre · Point Park Civic Center · Portrait of a Lady (van der Weyden) · Prince's Palace of Monaco · Minnie Pwerle · Queluz National Palace · Quiriguá · The Raft of the Medusa · Restoration of the Sistine Chapel frescoes · Rokeby Venus · Rosetta Stone · Pierre Rossier · Royal Gold Cup · Sanssouci · Scottish Parliament Building · Shrine of Remembrance · Sicilian Baroque · St. Michael's Golden-Domed Monastery · Stanford Memorial Church · Statue of Liberty · The Swimming Hole · Takalik Abaj · Tech Tower · Templon · The Third of May 1808 · Three Studies for Figures at the Base of a Crucifixion · Tomb of Antipope John XXIII · Tower of London · Triptych, May–June 1973 · Trump International Hotel and Tower (Chicago) · Vasa (ship) · Roman Vishniac · Warwick Castle · West Wycombe Park · Western Chalukya architecture · Rudolf Wolters · John Michael Wright
Awards, decorations and vexillology

Eagle Scout (Boy Scouts of America) · Flag of Armenia · Flag of Australia · Flag of Belarus · Flag of Canada · Flag of Germany · Flag of Hong Kong · Flag of India · Flag of Japan · Flag of Lithuania · Flag of Mexico · Flag of Portugal · Flag of Singapore · Hero of Belarus · Hero of Ukraine · History of merit badges (Boy Scouts of America) · Medal of Honor · National emblem of Belarus · Order of the Bath · Order of Canada · Order of the Garter · Order of St. Patrick · Order of the Thistle · Victoria Cross · Victoria Cross (Canada) · Victoria Cross for Australia · Victoria Cross for New Zealand · Wood Badge
Biology

Acrocanthosaurus · Ailanthus altissima · Aiphanes · Albatross · Albertosaurus · Allosaurus · Alpine Chough · Amanita bisporigera · Amanita muscaria · Amanita ocreata · Amanita phalloides · Ambondro mahabo · American Goldfinch · Andalusian horse · Andean Condor · Ant · Antbird · Archaea · Archaeopteryx · Arctic Tern · Armillaria gallica · Armillaria luteobubalina · Australian Green Tree Frog · Australian Magpie · Babakotia · Bacteria · Bald Eagle · Banker horse · Banksia aemula · Banksia brownii · Banksia cuneata · Banksia epica · Banksia ericifolia · Banksia integrifolia · Banksia menziesii · Banksia prionotes · Banksia scabrella · Banksia sessilis · Banksia sphaerocarpa · Banksia spinulosa · Banksia telmatiaea · Banksia verticillata · Banksia violacea · Barn Swallow · Beagle · Bird · Black Currawong · Black Vulture · Blue-faced Honeyeater · Blue Iguana · Blue whale · Bobcat · Bog turtle · Boletus edulis · Bone Wars · California Condor · Cane toad · Cattle Egret · Cell nucleus · Chiffchaff · Chorioactis · Chromatophore · Chrysiridia rhipheus · Cleveland Bay · Cochineal · Cockatoo · Common Blackbird · Common House Martin · Common Raven · Compsognathus · Edward Drinker Cope · Coprinellus micaceus · Cougar · Cretaceous–Tertiary extinction event · Cryptoprocta spelea · Cyathus · Cyclura nubila · Charles Darwin · Daspletosaurus · Deinonychus · Deinosuchus · Delichon · Diplodocus · Dinosaur · DNA · DNA repair · Domestic sheep · Drosera regia · Ediacara biota · Edmontosaurus · Henry Edwards (entomologist) · Elfin-woods Warbler · Elk · Emperor Penguin · Emu · Eremoryzomys · Eurasian Crag Martin · Eurasian Tree Sparrow · Eurasian Treecreeper · Evolution · Exosome complex · Fauna of Australia · Fauna of Puerto Rico · Fauna of Scotland · Fertilisation of Orchids · Ficus aurea · Fin whale · Flame Robin · Flight feather · Flocke · Georg Forster · Fossa (animal) · Fungus · Galerina marginata · Geastrum quadrifidum · Geastrum triplex · Genetics · Giant Otter · Golden-crowned Sifaka · Golden White-eye · Gorgosaurus · Gray Mouse Lemur · Great Auk · Greater Crested Tern · Green and Golden Bell Frog · Grey Currawong · Guinea pig · Gyromitra esculenta · Hawksbill turtle · Herrerasaurus · Hippopotamus · History of biology · History of evolutionary thought · Homo floresiensis · Huia · Humpback whale · Hydnellum peckii · Icelandic horse · Iguanodon · Immune system · Introduction to viruses · Island Fox · Jaguar · Javan Rhinoceros · Kakapo · Killer whale · King Vulture · Knut (polar bear) · Komodo dragon · Lactarius indigo · Lambeosaurus · Lemur · Lemur evolutionary history · Lion · Loggerhead sea turtle · Lundomys · Lycoperdon echinatum · Macaroni Penguin · Madeira Firecrest · Major urinary proteins · Majungasaurus · Marsh rice rat · Marwari horse · Massospondylus · Barbara McClintock · Mesopropithecus · Metabolism · Mindomys · Miniopterus griveaudi · Mourning Dove · Mycena haematopus · Myxobolus cerebralis · Noronha skink · Noronhomys · Northern Bald Ibis · Northern Pintail · Nuthatch · Ocean sunfish · Oceanic whitetip shark · Olm · On the Origin of Species · Oryzomys · Oryzomys antillarum · Oryzomys couesi · Oryzomys dimidiatus · Oryzomys gorgasi · Pallid sturgeon · Panellus stipticus · Parasaurolophus · Peregrine Falcon · Phagocyte · Pied Currawong · Pinguicula moranensis · Pipistrellus raceyi · Platypus · Plesiorycteropus · Polyozellus · Porbeagle · Primate · Procellariidae · Proteasome · Pseudoryzomys · Psittacosaurus · Puerto Rican Amazon · Pygmy Hippopotamus · Raccoon · Red-backed Fairywren · Red-billed Chough · Red-capped Robin · Red-necked Grebe · Red-tailed Black Cockatoo · Red-winged Fairywren · Rhodotus · Right whale · Ring-tailed Lemur · RNA interference · Rock Martin · Ruff · Ruffed lemur · Rufous-crowned Sparrow · Russet Sparrow · Sarcoscypha coccinea · Saxaul Sparrow · Sea otter · Seabird · Sei whale · Seorsumuscardinus · Short-beaked Echidna · Shrimp farm · Silky shark · Silky Sifaka · Song Thrush · Splendid Fairywren · G. Ledyard Stebbins · Stegosaurus · Styracosaurus · Subfossil lemur · Suffolk Punch · Suillus brevipes · Sumatran Rhinoceros · Superb Fairywren · Tarbosaurus · Tasmanian Devil · Tawny Owl · Telopea speciosissima · Thescelosaurus · Thomasomys ucucha · Thoroughbred · Thylacine · Transandinomys · Transandinomys bolivaris · Transandinomys talamancae · Triaenops menamena · Triceratops · Turkey Vulture · Tyrannosaurus · Variegated Fairywren · Velociraptor · Verbascum thapsus · Virus · Alfred Russel Wallace · White-breasted Nuthatch · White-winged Fairywren · Willie Wagtail · Yellow-tailed Black Cockatoo · Zapata Rail · Zino's Petrel
Business, economics and finance

Actuary · BAE Systems · William Barley · Richard Cantillon · Carucage · Demand Note · Economy of the Han Dynasty · Economy of India · Economy of the Iroquois · FairTax · Idlewild and Soak Zone · Harold Innis · Madman Muntz · New Orleans Mint · Octopus card · Oliver Typewriter Company · Panic of 1907 · Saint-Gaudens double eagle · Second Malaysia Plan · Shield nickel · Slate industry in Wales · Edgar Speyer · Tulip mania · United Kingdom corporation tax
Chemistry and mineralogy

Acetic acid · Aldol reaction · Antioxidant · Bupropion · Caesium · Caffeine · Cyclol · Diamond · Enzyme · Enzyme inhibitor · Enzyme kinetics · Francium · Germanium · Helium · Hydrochloric acid · Hydrogen · Iridium · Lead(II) nitrate · Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide · Niobium · Noble gas · Oxidative phosphorylation · Oxygen · Plutonium · Joseph Priestley · Raney nickel · Sertraline · Synthetic diamond · Technetium · Titanium · Ununoctium · Uranium · Xenon · Yttrium · Zinc
Computing

4chan · Acid2 · Delrina · Macintosh Classic · Manchester Mark 1 · Manchester Small-Scale Experimental Machine · Microsoft · The Million Dollar Homepage · NeXT · OpenBSD · Opera (web browser) · Parallel computing · PowerBook 100 · Rosetta@home · ROT13 · Scene7 · Search engine optimization · Storm botnet
Culture and society

Aggie Bonfire · Anna Anderson · Azerbaijani people · Robert Baden-Powell, 1st Baron Baden-Powell · Baden-Powell House · Belarusian Republican Youth Union · William D. Boyce · Guy Bradley · Frederick Russell Burnham · "The Bus Uncle" · The Chaser APEC pranks · Cleveland Street scandal · Cock Lane ghost · D. B. Cooper · Daylight saving time · Charles Domery · Marjory Stoneman Douglas · Montague Druitt · Exploding whale · Fairy tale · Terry Fox · Ursula Franklin · Free Association of German Trade Unions · Margaret Fuller · Girl Scouts of the USA · E. Urner Goodman · Stanley Green · Gropecunt Lane · William Hillcourt · Fanny Imlay · Indigenous people of the Everglades region · Jack the Ripper · Jack the Ripper: The Final Solution · Ketuanan Melayu · Akhtar Hameed Khan · Kylfings · Daniel Lambert · Liberty Bell · Macedonia (terminology) · Bob Marshall (wilderness activist) · Emmeline Pankhurst · Pig-faced women · Polish culture during World War II · Postage stamps of Ireland · Ramblin' Wreck · Rosewood massacre · Same-sex marriage in Spain · The Scout Association of Hong Kong · Scouting · John Martin Scripps · Society of the Song Dynasty · Stonewall riots · Taiwanese aborigines · Tamil people · Mary Toft · Toraja · Truthiness · Wife selling · Wonderbra · Robert Sterling Yard · Whitechapel murders
Education

Alpha Kappa Alpha · Alpha Phi Alpha · Amador Valley High School · ANAK Society · The Avery Coonley School · Baltimore City College · Dartmouth College · Duke University · Encyclopædia Britannica · Florida Atlantic University · Georgetown University · The Green (Dartmouth College) · The Guardian of Education · Harold and Inge Marcus Department of Industrial and Manufacturing Engineering · History of Baltimore City College · History of Michigan State University · History of Texas A&M University · The Judd School · Lessons for Children · Michigan State University · Ohio Wesleyan University · Oriel College, Oxford · Plano Senior High School · Royal National College for the Blind · School for Creative and Performing Arts · Shimer College · Some Thoughts Concerning Education · Stuyvesant High School · Texas A&M University · Texas Tech University · Thoughts on the Education of Daughters · Tuck School of Business · United States Academic Decathlon · United States Military Academy · University of California, Riverside · University of Michigan · Vkhutemas
Engineering and technology

Atomic line filter · Autostereogram · Matthew Boulton · Caesar cipher · CFM International CFM56 · Construction of the World Trade Center · Distributed element filter · Draining and development of the Everglades · Electrical engineering · Ernest Emerson · Gas metal arc welding · Gas tungsten arc welding · Halkett boat · Hanford Site · History of timekeeping devices · Hoover Dam · International Space Station · Christopher C. Kraft, Jr. · Glynn Lunney · Oil shale · Panavision · Rampart Dam · Renewable energy in Scotland · Restoration of the Everglades · Rolls-Royce Merlin · Rolls-Royce R · Scout Moor Wind Farm · Joseph Francis Shea · Shielded metal arc welding · Shoe polish · Sholes and Glidden typewriter · Shuttle–Mir Program · Space Shuttle Challenger disaster · Technology of the Song Dynasty · Webley Revolver · Welding · World Science Festival, 2008 · Otto Julius Zobel
Food and drink

Durian · Ina Garten · History of saffron · Maraba coffee · Medieval cuisine · Odwalla · Saffron · Trade and use of saffron · George Washington (inventor)
Geography and places

Ahmedabad · Alanya · Aliso Creek (Orange County) · Altrincham · Amchitka · Ann Arbor, Michigan · Antarctica · Ashton-under-Lyne · Australia · Balch Creek · Banff National Park · Bangalore · Bath, Somerset · Belarus · Belgium · Belgrade · Big Butte Creek · Birchington-on-Sea · Black Moshannon State Park · Blyth, Northumberland · Boston · Brownhills · Brownsea Island Scout camp · Bryce Canyon National Park · Bull Run River (Oregon) · Cameroon · Canada · Canberra · Carabane · Caroline Island · Cape Horn · Carrington Moss · The Catlins · Caversham, New Zealand · Chaco Culture National Historical Park · Chad · Chadderton · Chat Moss · Cheadle Hulme · Chennai · Cherry Springs State Park · Chetco River · Chetwynd, British Columbia · Chew Stoke · Chew Valley · Chew Valley Lake · Cleveland · Colton Point State Park · Columbia River · Columbia Slough · Craters of the Moon National Monument and Preserve · Darjeeling · Dawson Creek · Death Valley National Park · Detroit · Dhaka · Dorset · East End of London · El Hatillo Municipality, Miranda · Erie, Pennsylvania · Everglades National Park · Exmoor · Fanno Creek · Forest Park (Portland, Oregon) · Gangtok · Ganoga Lake · Geography and ecology of the Everglades · Geography of Ireland · Germany · Gilwell Park · Glacier National Park (U.S.) · Grand Forks, North Dakota · Greater Manchester · Gyeongju · Hamersley, Western Australia · Hamilton, Ontario · Herne Bay, Kent · Hillsboro, Oregon · Houston · India · Indonesia · Isle of Portland · Japan · Johnson Creek (Willamette River) · Jordan River (Utah) · Karnataka · Kaziranga National Park · Kent, Ohio · Kolkata · Lake Burley Griffin · Larrys Creek · Leonard Harrison State Park · Lethbridge · Little Butte Creek (Rogue River) · Little Thetford · Lock Haven, Pennsylvania · Loihi Seamount · Mackinac Island · Manchester · Mangalore · Manitoba · Mauna Loa · Metacomet Ridge · Minneapolis · Minnesota · Mendip Hills · Monte Ne · Mount St. Helens · Mount Tambora · Mysore · Nathu La · Nauru · Navenby · Neilston · Nevado del Ruiz · Nico Ditch · Noel Park · North Island (Houtman Abrolhos) · Oakwood Cemetery (Troy, New York) · Oklahoma · Oldham · Paulins Kill · Peru · Peterborough · Pithole, Pennsylvania · Plunketts Creek (Loyalsock Creek) · Plunketts Creek Bridge No. 3 · Postman's Park · Prairie Avenue · Presque Isle State Park · Providence, Rhode Island · Quehanna Wild Area · Quneitra · Radcliffe, Greater Manchester · Ratanakiri Province · Redwood National and State Parks · Rhyolite, Nevada · Ricketts Glen State Park · River Parrett · Riverina · Rogue River (Oregon) · Sale, Greater Manchester · San Francisco · Seattle · Shapinsay · Shaw and Crompton · Sheerness · Shoshone National Forest · Somerset · South Side (Chicago) · St. Johns River · St Kilda, Scotland · Stephens City, Virginia · Stretford · Surtsey · Technopark, Kerala · Trafford · Trafford Park · Tryon Creek · Tulsa, Oklahoma · Tumbler Ridge, British Columbia · Turkey · Upper and Lower Table Rock · Upper Pine Bottom State Park · Virginia · Washington, D.C. · Waterfall Gully, South Australia · Waterfalls in Ricketts Glen State Park · Westgate-on-Sea · West Bengal · Weymouth, Dorset · White Deer Hole Creek · Worlds End State Park · Wormshill · Yarralumla, Australian Capital Territory · Yellowstone National Park · Yosemite National Park · Youngstown, Ohio · Zion National Park
Geology and geophysics

1968 Illinois earthquake · 1980 eruption of Mount St. Helens · 1997 Qayen earthquake · 2002 Bou'in-Zahra earthquake · 2007–2008 Nazko earthquakes · Armero tragedy · Cerro Azul (Chile volcano) · Chicxulub crater · Geology of the Bryce Canyon area · Geology of the Capitol Reef area · Geology of the Death Valley area · Geology of the Grand Canyon area · Geology of the Lassen volcanic area · Geology of the Zion and Kolob canyons area · Mono-Inyo Craters · Mount Cayley volcanic field · David A. Johnston · The Volcano (British Columbia)
Health and medicine

Acute myeloid leukemia · Alzheimer's disease · Anti-tobacco movement in Nazi Germany · Asperger syndrome · Autism · Frank Macfarlane Burnet · Cerebellum · Chagas disease · Cholangiocarcinoma · Coeliac disease · Down syndrome · Helicobacter pylori · Hepatorenal syndrome · Hippocampus · Hippocrates · Huntington's disease · Icos · Influenza · Keratoconus · Ketogenic diet · Eli Lilly · Linezolid · Lung cancer · Major depressive disorder · Meningitis · Menstrual cycle · Multiple sclerosis · Osteochondritis dissecans · Oxygen toxicity · Poliomyelitis · Pulmonary contusion · Race Against Time (Lewis) · Rotavirus · Schizophrenia · Subarachnoid hemorrhage · Tooth development · Tourette syndrome · Treatment of multiple sclerosis · Tuberculosis · Water fluoridation · Ryan White · Michael Woodruff
History

1960 South Vietnamese coup attempt · 1962 South Vietnamese Independence Palace bombing · 1964 Brinks Hotel bombing · 1981 Irish hunger strike · 2007 Samjhauta Express bombings · Mumia Abu-Jamal · Abu Nidal · Act of Independence of Lithuania · Samuel Adams · Alcibiades · Ancient Egypt · Harriet Arbuthnot · Arrest and assassination of Ngo Dinh Diem · Elias Ashmole · Aspasia · Alice Ayres · Ramón Emeterio Betances · Birmingham campaign · Blackbeard · Stede Bonnet · Daniel Boone · Carsten Borchgrevink · James Bowie · Joel Brand · British Empire · Isaac Brock · Brown Dog affair · William Speirs Bruce · Henry Cornelius Burnett · Byzantine Empire · William Calcraft · California Gold Rush · Robert Catesby · Chalukya dynasty · Charles Carroll the Settler · Choe Bu · Chola Dynasty · Convention of 1832 · Convention of 1833 · Confederate government of Kentucky · William Cooley · Tom Crean (explorer) · John Dee · Demosthenes · Discovery Expedition · Donner Party · Double Seven Day scuffle · École Polytechnique massacre · Ehime Maru and USS Greeneville collision · England expects that every man will do his duty · Epaminondas · Farthest South · Guy Fawkes · Anne Frank · Fredonian Rebellion · Free State of Galveston · French colonization of Texas · Nicolo Giraud · Gettysburg Address · Great Fire of London · Gunpowder Plot · Hamlet chicken processing plant fire · Han Dynasty · Richard Hawes · Elwood Haynes · Thomas C. Hindman · History of the Australian Capital Territory · History of Burnside · History of the Grand Canyon area · History of Lithuania (1219–1295) · History of Miami · History of Minnesota · History of the Philippines · History of Poland (1945–1989) · History of Puerto Rico · History of Sheffield · History of Solidarity · History of Tamil Nadu · History of the Yosemite area · Hoysala Empire · Hungarian Revolution of 1956 · Imperial Trans-Antarctic Expedition · Inaugural games of the Flavian Amphitheatre · Inner German border · Jersey Shore shark attacks of 1916 · Joan of Arc · John W. Johnston · Ernest Joyce · July 2009 Ürümqi riots · Katyn massacre · Kengir uprising · King Arthur · Kingdom of Makuria · Kingdom of Mysore · Shen Kuo · Laika · Lothal · Edward Low · Aeneas Mackintosh · Charles Edward Magoon · Malcolm X · Manchester Mummy · Manzanar · Clements Markham · Mauthausen-Gusen concentration camp · Harry McNish · Khalid al-Mihdhar · Ming Dynasty · Mormon handcart pioneers · Benjamin Morrell · Muhammad al-Durrah incident · Fridtjof Nansen · Nansen's Fram expedition · Elizabeth Needham · New South Greenland · Night of the Long Knives · Nimrod Expedition · Norte Chico civilization · Emperor Norton · Oklahoma City bombing · Operation Passage to Freedom · Rosa Parks · Parthian Empire · Pericles · Peterloo Massacre · Phan Dinh Phung · Phan Xich Long · Witold Pilecki · Plymouth Colony · Political history of medieval Karnataka · Political history of Mysore and Coorg (1565–1760) · Political integration of India · Radhanite · Rashtrakuta Dynasty · Red Barn Murder · Red River Trails · Retiarius · Rock Springs massacre · Woodes Rogers · Ambrose Rookwood · Ross Sea party · Rus' Khaganate · S. A. Andrée's Arctic Balloon Expedition of 1897 · Saint-Sylvestre coup d'état · Scotland in the High Middle Ages · Robert Falcon Scott · Scottish National Antarctic Expedition · Second Crusade · Ernest Shackleton · Shackleton–Rowett Expedition · Wail al-Shehri · Jack Sheppard · Grace Sherwood · Slavery in ancient Greece · Samantha Smith · Song Dynasty · Southern Cross Expedition · Suleiman the Magnificent · Swedish emigration to the United States · SY Aurora's drift · Sydney Riot of 1879 · Tang Dynasty · Tarrare · Terra Nova Expedition · Theramenes · Thích Quảng Đức · Tiananmen Square self-immolation incident · Tibet during the Ming Dynasty · To the People of Texas & All Americans in the World · Treaty of Devol · Stephen Trigg · Hasekura Tsunenaga · Harriet Tubman · Dick Turpin · Unification of Germany · Urse d'Abetot · Vijayanagara Empire · Giovanni Villani · Voyage of the James Caird · Voyage of the Karluk · Rudolf Vrba · Roy Welensky · Western Chalukya Empire · Western Ganga Dynasty · Xa Loi Pagoda raids · Yagan · Yellowstone fires of 1988 · Zanzibar Revolution · Zhou Tong (archer) · Nikita Zotov
Language and linguistics

Bengali Language Movement · Chinese classifier · Decipherment of rongorongo · Gwoyeu Romatzyh · Irish phonology · Mayan languages · Nafaanra language · Nahuatl · Rongorongo · Sentence spacing · Swedish language · Tamil language · Turkish language
Law

Accurate News and Information Act · Alaska Mental Health Enabling Act · Al-Kateb v Godwin · Ashford v Thornton · Assassination of Robert F. Kennedy · Australian Competition and Consumer Commission v Baxter Healthcare · Beauchamp–Sharp Tragedy · Norman Birkett, 1st Baron Birkett · Bricker Amendment · Elizabeth Canning · Constitution of Belarus · Court of Chancery · Death of Ian Tomlinson · Execution by elephant · Dietrich v The Queen · Edward VIII abdication crisis · Federalist No. 10 · Fundamental Rights, Directive Principles and Fundamental Duties of India · Robert Garran · William Garrow · Gray's Inn · Learned Hand · Natalee Holloway · Jena Six · LaRouche criminal trials · Law · Marshalsea · Michael Brown Okinawa assault incident · Moors murders · Ordinances of 1311 · Parliament Acts 1911 and 1949 · Pendle witches · Regulamentul Organic · Report of 1800 · Roe v. Wade · Samlesbury witches · Saxbe fix · Antonin Scalia · Assata Shakur · Tahirih Justice Center · Toa Payoh ritual murders
Literature and theatre

Abbey Theatre · Ace Books · Chinua Achebe · The Adventures of Tintin · Amazing Stories · Analytical Review · Anarky · Ancient Egyptian literature · Mário de Andrade · Anglo-Saxon Chronicle · Aradia, or the Gospel of the Witches · Augusta, Lady Gregory · Authentic Science Fiction · The Author's Farce · James Robert Baker · Honoré de Balzac · Ann Bannon · Anna Laetitia Barbauld · Natalie Clifford Barney · Batman · Beyond Fantasy Fiction · Bone Sharps, Cowboys, and Thunder Lizards · Book of Kells · Cædmon · Candide · Rachel Carson · Anton Chekhov · Colley Cibber · The Country Wife · The Covent-Garden Journal · Noël Coward · Stephen Crane · Creatures of Impulse · Cousin Bette · David Suzuki: The Autobiography · John Day (printer) · Emily Dickinson · Drapier's Letters · Nancy Drew · Du Fu · Eagle (comic) · Early life of Samuel Johnson · Edmund Evans · Fantastic Universe · Zelda Fitzgerald · The Fox and the Hound (novel) · Fun Home · The General in His Labyrinth · William Gibson · W. S. Gilbert · The Green Child · Rufus Wilmot Griswold · Richard Hakluyt · The Hardy Boys · Halo: Contact Harvest · The Halo Graphic Novel · Hamlet · H.D. · Hemming's Cartulary · Ernest Hemingway · Her Majesty's Theatre · Georgette Heyer · The Historian · History of a Six Weeks' Tour · Oliver Wendell Holmes, Sr. · I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings · If (magazine) · The Illuminatus! Trilogy · Imagination (magazine) · Imagism · Irish Thoroughbred · Joseph Johnson (publisher) · Samuel Johnson · Jonathan Strange & Mr Norrell · James Joyce · Kannada literature in the Vijayanagara Empire · Kannada literature in the Western Chalukya Empire · Lad, A Dog · Lat · Lemurs of Madagascar (book) · Literature in the Hoysala Empire · Lives of the Most Eminent Literary and Scientific Men · James Russell Lowell · Nigel Kneale · La Peau de chagrin · Le Père Goriot · Letters Written in Sweden, Norway, and Denmark · The Log from the Sea of Cortez · Louis Lambert (novel) · The Lucy poems · Bruno Maddox · Make Way for Ducklings · Olivia Manning · Maria: or, The Wrongs of Woman · Mary: A Fiction · Master Juba · George Moore (novelist) · Nature fakers controversy · Night (book) · "Ode on a Grecian Urn" · "Ode on Indolence" · "The Open Boat" · Original Stories from Real Life · Ormulum · Elaine Paige · Pattern Recognition (novel) · The Penelopiad · Philitas of Cos · Edgar Allan Poe · Virginia Eliza Clemm Poe · Poetry · Adelaide Anne Procter · Proserpine (play) · Ion Heliade Rădulescu · Rambles in Germany and Italy · Raptor Red · "The Raven" · Reception history of Jane Austen · The Relapse · Restoration literature · Restoration spectacular · Romeo and Juliet · J. K. Rowling · Roy of the Rovers · El Señor Presidente · School Rumble · William Shakespeare · Mary Shelley · Mary Martha Sherwood · Shojo Beat · "Sinestro Corps War" · Singin' and Swingin' and Gettin' Merry Like Christmas · Sir Gawain and the Green Knight · The Slave Community · Christopher Smart's asylum confinement · "The Thriving Cult of Greed and Power" · Starship Troopers · Tom Swift · Superman · John Millington Synge · Rabindranath Tagore · The Temple at Thatch · Theatre Royal, Drury Lane · The Time Traveler's Wife · "To Autumn" · To Kill a Mockingbird · Tokyo Mew Mew · J. R. R. Tolkien · Trial by Jury · Sarah Trimmer · "Ulysses" (poem) · Uncle Tom's Cabin · Mario Vargas Llosa · A Very Merry Unauthorized Children's Scientology Pageant · Watchmen · The Well of Loneliness · Nathaniel Parker Willis · Mary Wollstonecraft · Wonder Stories · The World Without Us · William Butler Yeats · Z. Marcas
Mathematics

0.999... · 1 − 2 + 3 − 4 + · · · · Archimedes · Georg Cantor · Cryptography · Euclidean algorithm · Leonhard Euler · Group (mathematics) · Robert Hues · Infinite monkey theorem · Émile Lemoine · Emery Molyneux · Monty Hall problem · Emmy Noether · Blaise Pascal · Polar coordinate system · Problem of Apollonius · Marian Rejewski · Edward Wright (mathematician)
Media

"200" (Stargate SG-1) · 300 (film) · "Abyssinia, Henry" · Alien vs. Predator (film) · "All Hell Breaks Loose" (Supernatural) · American Beauty (film) · Animaniacs · The Apprentice (UK) · Aquaman (TV program) · B movie · Barton Fink · Battlefield Earth (film) · "The Beginning of the End" (Lost) · Bezhin Meadow · Blade Runner · "The Body" (Buffy the Vampire Slayer) · Borat: Cultural Learnings of America for Make Benefit Glorious Nation of Kazakhstan · The Boys from Baghdad High · Branded to Kill · Bride of Frankenstein · But I'm a Cheerleader · Cannibal Holocaust · "Cape Feare" · Captain Scarlet and the Mysterons · Carnivàle · "Cartman Gets an Anal Probe" · Casablanca (film) · Casino Royale (2006 film) · The Cat and the Canary (1927 film) · Changeling (film) · Characters of Carnivàle · "The City of New York vs. Homer Simpson" · Cold Feet · "Confirmed Dead" · Coonskin (film) · "Damien" (South Park) · Degrassi: The Next Generation · Diary of a Camper · Doctor Who missing episodes · Dog Day Afternoon · "Doomsday" (Doctor Who) · E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial · Fight Club (film) · Film Booking Offices of America · Film noir · Firefly (TV series) · Flywheel, Shyster, and Flywheel · Pauline Fowler · "Fresh Blood" (Supernatural) · Fritz the Cat (film) · "Greatest Hits" (Lost) · Gremlins 2: The New Batch · Halloween (1978 film) · Halloween II · Halloween III: Season of the Witch · "Hell Is Other Robots" · The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy (radio series) · "Homer's Enemy" · "Homer's Phobia" · Hotel Chevalier · House (TV series) · "Interactions" (The Spectacular Spider-Man) · Jabba the Hutt · Joking Apart · "The Joy of Sect" · Jurassic Park (film) · Martin Keamy · Kinetoscope · Lage Raho Munna Bhai · Last of the Summer Wine · "The Last Temptation of Krust" · Latter Days · "Lisa the Skeptic" · "Lisa the Vegetarian" · Little Miss Sunshine · The Lord of the Rings (1978 film) · Lord of the Universe · Lost: Missing Pieces · Madlax · Making Waves (TV series) · Troy McClure · Meerkat Manor · Meerkat Manor: The Story Begins · "Meet Kevin Johnson" · Megatokyo · Mom and Dad · Montreal Screwjob · "Mother and Child Reunion" (Degrassi: The Next Generation) · "Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo" · Mulholland Drive (film) · The Mummy (1999 film) · Mutual Broadcasting System · Night of the Living Dead · Nikki and Paulo · "No Such Thing as Vampires" · noitulovE · "North by North Quahog" · Not One Less · "Once More, with Feeling" (Buffy the Vampire Slayer) · Only Fools and Horses · "The Other Woman" · Our Friends in the North · Our Gang · Palpatine · Paramount Television Network · Parks and Recreation (season 1) · "Partners in Crime" (Doctor Who) · The Philadelphia Inquirer · "Pilot" (House) · "Pilot" (Parks and Recreation) · "Pilot" (Smallville) · "Pilot" (Supernatural) · The Pit and the Pendulum (1961 film) · The Political Cesspool · The Power of Nightmares · "Premiere" (The O.C.) · Press Gang · Pride and Prejudice (1995 TV serial) · "Road to the Multiverse" · Bernard Quatermass · The Quatermass Experiment · Quatermass II · Quatermass and the Pit · Red vs. Blue · The Revolution Will Not Be Televised (film) · Richard III (1955 film) · RKO Pictures · Rob-B-Hood · "A Rugrats Chanukah" · "The Shape of Things to Come" (Lost) · "She Shoulda Said 'No'!" · Sherlock Holmes Baffled · Sideshow Bob · Bart Simpson · Homer Simpson · The Simpsons · The Simpsons Movie · Smallville (season 1) · "Soprano Home Movies" · Sound film · Star Trek: First Contact · Star Trek: The Motion Picture · Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan · Star Trek III: The Search for Spock · Star Trek VI: The Undiscovered Country · "Starvin' Marvin" (South Park) · "The Stolen Earth" · Street newspaper · "A Streetcar Named Marge" · "Subway" (Homicide: Life on the Street) · Summer of '42 · Sunderland Echo · Sunset Boulevard (film) · Superman film series · Supernatural (season 1) · Supernatural (season 2) · Tender Mercies · Tenebrae (film) · "These Are the Voyages..." · "Through the Looking Glass" (Lost) · Transformers (film) · "Trapped in the Closet" (South Park) · Treehouse of Horror (series) · Trembling Before G-d · Tropic Thunder · "Volcano" (South Park) · "Weight Gain 4000" · "What Is and What Should Never Be" (Supernatural) · The Wire · Witchfinder General (film) · Yes Minister · "You Only Move Twice" · Zodiac (film)
Media biography
James Thomas Aubrey, Jr. · Kroger Babb · Eric Bana · Joseph Barbera · Harriet Bosse · Rudolph Cartier · Nancy Cartwright · Jackie Chan · Bette Davis · George Washington Dixon · Steve Dodd · Kirsten Dunst · Judy Garland · Jake Gyllenhaal · Maggie Gyllenhaal · Anthony Michael Hall · William Hanna · Phil Hartman · Ethan Hawke · Katie Holmes · Jason Voorhees · Jenna Jameson · Peter Jennings · Angelina Jolie · Diane Keaton · Abbas Kiarostami · Vivien Leigh · Cillian Murphy · James Nesbitt · Sydney Newman · Austin Nichols · Miranda Otto · Brad Pitt · Satyajit Ray · Sebastian Shaw (actor) · Khan Noonien Singh · Aaron Sorkin · Jack Sparrow · KaDee Strickland · Sharon Tate · Michael Tritter · Jack Warner · Emma Watson · Reese Witherspoon · Anna May Wong · Preity Zinta
Meteorology

1910 Cuba hurricane · 1928 Okeechobee hurricane · 1933 Atlantic hurricane season · 1941 Atlantic hurricane season · 1941 Florida hurricane · 1983 Atlantic hurricane season · 1988 Atlantic hurricane season · 1994 Atlantic hurricane season · 1995 Pacific hurricane season · 1998 Pacific hurricane season · 1999 Sydney hailstorm · 2000 Sri Lanka cyclone · 2002 Atlantic hurricane season · 2003 Atlantic hurricane season · 2003 Pacific hurricane season · 2005 Atlantic hurricane season · 2005 Azores subtropical storm · 2006 Atlantic hurricane season · 2006 Pacific hurricane season · 2006 Westchester County tornado · 2007 Atlantic hurricane season · Christmas 1994 nor'easter · Climate of India · Climate of Minnesota · Cyclone Gonu · Cyclone Elita · Cyclone Orson · Effects of Hurricane Georges in Louisiana · Effects of Hurricane Isabel in Delaware · Effects of Hurricane Isabel in Maryland and Washington, D.C. · Effects of Hurricane Isabel in North Carolina · Effects of Hurricane Ivan in the Lesser Antilles and South America · Extratropical cyclone · Eye (cyclone) · Global warming · Great Lakes Storm of 1913 · Hurricane Bob (1985) · Hurricane Bret (1999) · Hurricane Carmen · Hurricane Claudette (2003) · Hurricane Daniel (2006) · Hurricane Danny (1997) · Hurricane Dean · Hurricane Dog (1950) · Hurricane Edith (1971) · Hurricane Erika (1997) · Hurricane Erika (2003) · Hurricane Esther (1961) · Hurricane Fabian · Hurricane Gloria · Hurricane Grace (1991) · Hurricane Guillermo (1997) · Hurricane Gustav (2002) · Hurricane Hazel · Hurricane Iniki · Hurricane Ioke · Hurricane Irene (1999) · Hurricane Irene (2005) · Hurricane Isabel · Hurricane Isis (1998) · Hurricane Ismael · Hurricane John (1994) · Hurricane John (2006) · Hurricane Juan · Hurricane Kenna · Hurricane Kiko (1989) · Hurricane Kyle (2002) · Hurricane Lane (2006) · Hurricane Linda (1997) · Hurricane Mitch · Hurricane Nate (2005) · Hurricane Nora (1997) · Hurricane Rick (2009) · Hurricane Vince (2005) · Meteorological history of Hurricane Dean · Meteorological history of Hurricane Gordon (1994) · Meteorological history of Hurricane Ivan · Meteorological history of Hurricane Jeanne · Meteorological history of Hurricane Katrina · Meteorological history of Hurricane Wilma · Retreat of glaciers since 1850 · Subtropical Storm Andrea (2007) · Surface weather analysis · Tornado · Tropical cyclone · Tropical Depression Ten (2005) · Tropical Depression Ten (2007) · Tropical Storm Alberto (2006) · Tropical Storm Allison · Tropical Storm Barry (2001) · Tropical Storm Barry (2007) · Tropical Storm Bill (2003) · Tropical Storm Bonnie (2004) · Tropical Storm Brenda (1960) · Tropical Storm Chantal (2001) · Tropical Storm Edouard (2002) · Tropical Storm Erick (2007) · Tropical Storm Faxai (2007) · Tropical Storm Gabrielle (2007) · Tropical Storm Hanna (2002) · Tropical Storm Henri (2003) · Tropical Storm Hermine (1998) · Tropical Storm Keith (1988) · Tropical Storm Kiko (2007) · Tropical Storm Marco (1990) · Tropical Storm Marco (2008) · Tropical Storm Vamei · Typhoon Paka · Typhoon Pongsona · Typhoon Tip · Wind
Music

1987 (What the Fuck Is Going On?) · "4 Minutes" (Madonna song) · Achtung Baby · Adore (album) · Agrippina (opera) · "All You Need Is Love" (The JAMs song) · "Amazing Grace" · "Angel of Death" (song) · Anodyne (album) · Arthur (Or the Decline and Fall of the British Empire) · Arular · "Baby Boy" (Beyoncé Knowles song) · Backmasking · "Bale Out" · "Bam Thwok" · The Bartered Bride · The Basement Tapes · Be Here Now (album) · Beijing opera · Blood Sugar Sex Magik · Body Count (album) · By the Way · Californication (album) · Choral symphony · Christ Illusion · "City of Blinding Lights" · Concerto delle donne · Control (Janet Jackson album) · Damageplan · The Dark Side of the Moon · "Déjà Vu" (Beyoncé Knowles song) · Diorama (album) · Disintegration (The Cure album) · "Dixie" (song) · Dookie · Doolittle (album) · Dream Days at the Hotel Existence · Dungeons & Dragons (album) · Elderly Instruments · Enta da Stage · Enter the Wu-Tang (36 Chambers) · "Eyes of the Insane" · Fantasy Black Channel · The Final Cut (album) · Freak Out! · The Freewheelin' Bob Dylan · "Fuck the Millennium" · Ghosts I–IV · God Hates Us All · Grunge · Halo 3 Original Soundtrack · Heavy metal music · "Hey Baby" (No Doubt song) · "Hey Jude" · "Hey Ya!" · H.M.S. Pinafore · "Hollaback Girl" · "I Don't Remember" · Il ritorno d'Ulisse in patria · In Rainbows · In Utero (album) · Internationalist (album) · Intimacy (Bloc Party album) · "Irreplaceable" · Is This It · "Jihad" (song) · "Just Like Heaven" (song) · Kala · Kid A · L'ange de Nisida · L'incoronazione di Poppea · L'Orfeo · "Layla" · "Like a Rolling Stone" · Lions (album) · "The Long and Winding Road" · Love. Angel. Music. Baby. · Loveless (album) · Made in the Dark · Melodifestivalen · A Momentary Lapse of Reason · "Monkey Gone to Heaven" · Mother's Milk · Mozart family grand tour · Music of Athens, Georgia · Music of Maryland · Music of the Lesser Antilles · Music of the United States · "My Belarusy" · "My Happiness" (song) · National Anthem of Russia · Niandra Lades and Usually Just a T-Shirt · Nine Inch Nails live performances · No Depression (album) · No Line on the Horizon · "Nothing to My Name" · Odyssey Number Five · "Old Dan Tucker" · "On the Banks of the Wabash, Far Away" · One Hot Minute · Over the Rainbow (Connie Talbot album) · "Paranoid Android" · Pinkerton (album) · Punk rock · Reign in Blood · Remain in Light · Rhinemaidens · "Rich Girl" (Gwen Stefani song) · Rock Steady (album) · Rufus Does Judy at Carnegie Hall · Rumours · Salsa music · "Say Say Say" · The Seduction of Ingmar Bergman · Silent Alarm · Sky Blue Sky · Slay Tracks (1933–1969) · "Smells Like Teen Spirit" · "Something" · Sonatas and Interludes · South of Heaven · "Speechless" (Michael Jackson song) · Spiderland · Still Reigning · Supernature (Goldfrapp album) · Surfer Rosa · Sylvia (ballet) · Symphonic poems (Liszt) · Symphony No. 3 (Górecki) · Symphony No. 8 (Mahler) · Thespis (opera) · "This Charming Man" · Thriller (album) · "Today" (The Smashing Pumpkins song) · Tosca · "Touch Me I'm Sick" · Tragic Kingdom · "Under the Bridge" · Vol. 3: (The Subliminal Verses) · "We Are the World" · A Weekend in the City · "What You Waiting For?" · "What'd I Say" · Wish You Were Here (Pink Floyd album) · "The World Is Not Enough" (song) · Year Zero (album)
Music biography
Aaliyah · AC/DC · Alice in Chains · Audioslave · Walter Bache · The Beatles · Bix Beiderbecke · Big Star · Black Francis · Adrian Boult · David Bowie · Kate Bush · Mariah Carey · Jay Chou · Rebecca Helferich Clarke · Damageplan · Josquin des Prez · Celine Dion · Nick Drake · Bob Dylan · Bernard Fanning · Fightin' Texas Aggie Band · Flea (musician) · John Frusciante · Godsmack · The Greencards · Ayumi Hamasaki · Insane Clown Posse · Janet Jackson · Michael Jackson · Bradley Joseph · Joy Division · Maynard James Keenan · The Kinks · Frank Klepacki · Héctor Lavoe · John Lennon · David Lovering · Witold Lutosławski · Madonna (entertainer) · Gustav Mahler · John Mayer · Olivier Messiaen · Metallica · Meshuggah · Kylie Minogue · Motörhead · Mozart in Italy · Ram Narayan · Nine Inch Nails · Nirvana (band) · The Notorious B.I.G. · Opeth · The Orb · Leo Ornstein · Ellis Paul · Pearl Jam · Pixies · Powderfinger · Elvis Presley · Radiohead · R.E.M. · Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov · Rush (band) · Joey Santiago · Sasha (DJ) · Selena · Sex Pistols · S.H.E · Dmitri Shostakovich · Silverchair · Slayer · The Smashing Pumpkins · Bedřich Smetana · Elliott Smith · Gwen Stefani · Stereolab · Strapping Young Lad · The Supremes · Joseph Szigeti · Tōru Takemitsu · Connie Talbot · Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky · Tchaikovsky and the Belyayev circle · Tchaikovsky and The Five · Tool (band) · U2 · Uncle Tupelo · The Wiggles · Wilco · Frank Zappa
Philosophy and psychology

Attachment theory · Conatus · Confirmation bias · Free will · Getting It: The Psychology of est · Eric A. Havelock · Philosophy of mind · Hilary Putnam · Reactive attachment disorder · Transhumanism · A Vindication of the Rights of Woman · Bernard Williams
Physics and astronomy

243 Ida · 90377 Sedna · Apollo 8 · Asteroid belt · Astrophysics Data System · Atmosphere of Jupiter · Atom · Barnard's Star · Big Bang · Binary star · Callisto (moon) · Cat's Eye Nebula · Ceres (dwarf planet) · Comet Hale-Bopp · Comet Hyakutake · Comet Shoemaker-Levy 9 · Crab Nebula · Cygnus X-1 · Definition of planet · Dwarf planet · Earth · Electron · Enceladus (moon) · Equipartition theorem · Eris (dwarf planet) · Europa (moon) · Extrasolar planet · Formation and evolution of the Solar System · Galaxy · Gamma-ray burst · Ganymede (moon) · Ben Gascoigne · General relativity · Globular cluster · GRB 970228 · GRB 970508 · H II region · Halley's Comet · Haumea (dwarf planet) · Herbig–Haro object · Hubble Deep Field · Hubble Space Telescope · IK Pegasi · Introduction to general relativity · Io (moon) · Jupiter · Jupiter Trojan · Johannes Kepler · George Koval · Kreutz Sungrazers · Kuiper belt · Laplace–Runge–Lenz vector · Magnetosphere of Jupiter · Main sequence · Makemake (dwarf planet) · Mars · Mercury (planet) · Moon · Neptune · Nebular hypothesis · Oberon (moon) · Gerard K. O'Neill · Oort cloud · Photon · Planet · Planetary habitability · Planetary nebula · Planets beyond Neptune · Pluto · Proxima Centauri · Quark · Redshift · Rings of Jupiter · Rings of Neptune · Rings of Uranus · Saturn · Scattered disc · Sirius · Louis Slotin · Solar eclipse · Solar System · Star · Sun · Supernova · Tau Ceti · Edward Teller · Titan (moon) · Titania (moon) · Toronto Magnetic and Meteorological Observatory · Transit of Venus · Triton (moon) · Umbriel (moon) · Uranus · Vega · Venus · Volcanism on Io · White dwarf · Zhang Heng
Politics and government

1880 Republican National Convention · 1937 Social Credit backbenchers' revolt · 1975 Australian constitutional crisis · 1996 United States campaign finance controversy · Anarcho-capitalism · Yasser Arafat · Ban Ki-moon · Alexandre Banza · J. C. W. Beckham · Barthélemy Boganda · William O'Connell Bradley · Bring Us Together · John Brownlee as Attorney-General of Alberta · John Brownlee sex scandal · Simon Bolivar Buckner · California's 12th congressional district election, 1946 · Canadian federal election, 1957 · Honório Carneiro Leão, Marquis of Paraná · Neville Chamberlain · Checkers speech · Murray Chotiner · Wesley Clark · Grover Cleveland · Calvin Coolidge · Richard Cordray · John Diefenbaker · Don Dunstan · Early life and military career of John McCain · European Commission · European Parliament · Gerald Ford · Wendell H. Ford · Fourth International · William Goebel · Emma Goldman · Government of the Han Dynasty · Herbert Greenfield · Benjamin Harrison · William Henry Harrison · John L. Helm · Inauguration of Barack Obama · George F. Kennan · Kentucky gubernatorial election, 1899 · Nikita Khrushchev · Franklin Knight Lane · League of Nations · Leopold Report · David Lewis (politician) · Liberal Movement · Local Government Commission for England (1992) · Angus Lewis Macdonald · Thomas R. Marshall · John McCain · Bob McEwen · Military career of Hugo Chávez · Harvey Milk · Edwin P. Morrow · Ngô Đình Cẩn · Ngo Dinh Diem presidential visit to Australia · Nguyen Ngoc Tho · Pat Nixon · Nutrition Assistance for Puerto Rico · Barack Obama · Ostend Manifesto · Overman Committee · Paul E. Patton · Ross Perot presidential campaign, 1992 · Józef Piłsudski · Thomas Playford IV · Premiership of John Brownlee · Privy Council of the United Kingdom · Read my lips: no new taxes · Nancy Reagan · Ronald Reagan · Richard Gavin Reid · Louis Riel · Rise of Neville Chamberlain · Lawrence Sullivan Ross · Royal Assent · Alexander Cameron Rutherford · Terry Sanford · Scottish Parliament · Solomon P. Sharp · Isaac Shelby · Arthur Sifton · South Australian state election, 2006 · Albert Speer · Augustus Owsley Stanley · State of Vietnam referendum, 1955 · Ed Stelmach · Charles Stewart (Canadian politician) · United Nations Parliamentary Assembly · United States Senate election in California, 1950 · P. K. van der Byl · Viet Nam Quoc Dan Dang · A Vindication of the Rights of Men · Jerry Voorhis · Daniel Webster · Gough Whitlam · William Wilberforce
Religion, mysticism and mythology

Ælfheah of Canterbury · Adi Shankara · The Age of Reason · Anekantavada · Asser · Atheism · Augustine of Canterbury · Badnjak (Serbian) · Bahá'í Faith · Beth Hamedrash Hagadol (Manhattan, New York) · Martin Bucer · John Calvin · Cardinal-nephew · Clement of Dunblane · Congregation Baith Israel Anshei Emes · Congregation Beth Elohim (Brooklyn, New York) · Walter de Coventre · Thomas Cranmer · Diocletianic Persecution · Ealdred (archbishop of York) · Early life of Joseph Smith, Jr. · First Roumanian-American congregation · Gilbert Foliot · Ganesha · George Fox · Greek mythology · Gregorian chant · Gregorian mission · Gregory of Nazianzus · Henry (Bishop of Finland) · Hilary of Chichester · Intelligent design · Iravan · Jocelin (Bishop of Glasgow) · Robert of Jumièges · Peter Jones (missionary) · Justus · Kitsune · Knights Templar · John Knox · Cosmo Gordon Lang · Laurence of Canterbury · William Longchamp · Maximus the Confessor · Mellitus · Millennium '73 · Mosque · Netley Abbey · Nigel (Bishop of Ely) · Nostradamus · Operation Auca · Orion (mythology) · Paulinus of York · Pope Pius XII · Priestley Riots · Religious debates over the Harry Potter series · Rhodes blood libel · Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Miami · William de St-Calais · St. Michael's Cathedral, Qingdao · Stigand · Catholic doctrine regarding the Ten Commandments · Thomas of Bayeux · Joseph W. Tkach · Temple Sinai (Oakland, California) · Vampire · Vithoba · Hubert Walter · Wilfrid · William de Corbeil · William of Tyre · Xenu · Huldrych Zwingli
Royalty, nobility and heraldry

Áedán mac Gabráin · Ælle of Sussex · Æthelbald of Mercia · Æthelberht of Kent · Æthelred of Mercia · Albert, Prince Consort · Alboin · Aldfrith of Northumbria · Alexandra of Denmark · Prince Albert Victor, Duke of Clarence and Avondale · Grand Duchess Anastasia Nikolaevna of Russia · Ahmose I · Anne of Denmark · Charles Atangana · Attalus I · Augustus · Basiliscus · Princess Beatrice of the United Kingdom · Beorhtwulf of Mercia · John Brooke-Little · Cædwalla of Wessex · Ceawlin of Wessex · George Calvert, 1st Baron Baltimore · Charles II of England · Princess Charlotte of Wales · John Churchill, 1st Duke of Marlborough · Sarah Churchill, Duchess of Marlborough · Coenred of Mercia · Coenwulf of Mercia · Constantine II of Scotland · Coronation of the British monarch · David I of Scotland · Diocletian · Domitian · Donnchadh, Earl of Carrick · Eadbald of Kent · Eardwulf of Northumbria · Ecclesiastical heraldry · Edward III of England · Edward VI of England · Edward VII of the United Kingdom · Edward VIII of the United Kingdom · Egbert of Wessex · Elagabalus · Elizabeth I of England · Ernest Augustus I of Hanover · Frederick III, German Emperor · George I of Great Britain · George I of Greece · George III of the United Kingdom · George IV of the United Kingdom · George V of the United Kingdom · George VI of the United Kingdom · Princess Helena of the United Kingdom · Family of Gediminas · Ine of Wessex · Ivan Alexander of Bulgaria · James I of England · James II of England · Jogaila · Prince Sadruddin Aga Khan · Princess Louise, Duchess of Argyll · Elizabeth Bowes-Lyon · Manuel I Komnenos · Mary of Teck · Mary II of England · Maximian · Catherine de' Medici · Monarchy of the United Kingdom · Óengus I of the Picts · Offa of Mercia · Grand Duchess Olga Nikolaevna of Russia · Penda of Mercia · Hannah Primrose, Countess of Rosebery · Princess Alice of Battenberg · Princess Victoria of Hesse and by Rhine · Privilege of peerage · Rhys ap Gruffydd · Representative peer · Richard II of England · Sargon of Akkad · Domenico Selvo · Simeon I of Bulgaria · Siward, Earl of Northumbria · Charlotte Stuart, Duchess of Albany · Sviatoslav I of Kiev · Tiridates I of Armenia · Wallis, Duchess of Windsor · Wiglaf of Mercia · Wihtred of Kent · William III of England · William IV of the United Kingdom · Wulfhere of Mercia
Sport and recreation

1896 Summer Olympics · 1910 London to Manchester air race · 1923 FA Cup Final · 1926 World Series · 1930 FIFA World Cup · 1956 FA Cup Final · 1956 Winter Olympics · 1994 San Marino Grand Prix · 1995 Japanese Grand Prix · 1995 Pacific Grand Prix · 2000 Sugar Bowl · 2003 Insight Bowl · 2004 World Series · 2005 ACC Championship Game · 2005 Sugar Bowl · 2005 Texas Longhorns football team · 2005 United States Grand Prix · 2006 Chick-fil-A Bowl · 2006 Gator Bowl · 2007 ACC Championship Game · 2007 USC Trojans football team · 2008 ACC Championship Game · 2008 Brazilian Grand Prix · 2008 Humanitarian Bowl · 2008 Japanese Grand Prix · 2008 Monaco Grand Prix · 2008 Orange Bowl · 2009 Giro d'Italia · 2009 International Bowl · 2009 Lamar Hunt U.S. Open Cup Final · 2009 Orange Bowl · Aikido · Arsenal F.C. · Association football · Aston Villa F.C. · Australia at the Winter Olympics · Barbara L · Sid Barnes with the Australian cricket team in England in 1948 · Baseball · Belle Vue Zoological Gardens · Bids for the 2012 Summer Olympics · Blackburn Olympic F.C. · Bodyline · Brabham · Brabham BT19 · Calgary Flames · Calgary Hitmen · Chariot racing · Central Coast Mariners FC · Chelsea F.C. · Chess · Chicado V · City of Manchester Stadium · Cotswold Olimpick Games · Cricket World Cup · Crusaders (rugby) · Cycling at the 2008 Summer Olympics – Men's road race · Cycling at the 2008 Summer Olympics – Women's road race · December to Dismember (2006) · Derry City F.C. · Dover Athletic F.C. · Dr Pepper Ballpark · Dungeons & Dragons · Easy Jet · England national football team manager · England national rugby union team · Expedition to the Barrier Peaks · FC Barcelona · FIFA World Cup · Fifth Test, 1948 Ashes series · Fighting in ice hockey · First-move advantage in chess · First Test, 1948 Ashes series · Fourth Test, 1948 Ashes series · France national rugby union team · Germany women's national football team · Gillingham F.C. · Gliding · Go Man Go · The Great American Bash (2005) · Hare coursing · Herschel Greer Stadium · History of American football · History of Arsenal F.C. (1886–1966) · History of Aston Villa F.C. (1961–present) · History of Bradford City A.F.C. · History of Gillingham F.C. · History of Ipswich Town F.C. · History of the Montreal Canadiens · History of the National Hockey League (1917–1942) · History of the National Hockey League (1942–1967) · History of the National Hockey League (1967–1992) · History of Norwich City F.C. · History of Stoke City F.C. · History of the board game Monopoly · Hockey Hall of Fame · Ice hockey at the Olympic Games · IFK Göteborg · Ipswich Town F.C. · Jesus College Boat Club (Oxford) · John the bookmaker controversy · Kit (association football) · Leek Town F.C. · Lightning Bar · Lockdown (2008) · Luton Town F.C. · Manchester City F.C. · Manchester United F.C. · Margate F.C. · McDonald's Cycle Center · Miss Meyers · Nashville Sounds · New Jersey Devils · New Zealand national rugby union team · No Way Out (2004) · North Road (football ground) · Norwich City F.C. · Nottingham Panthers · Old Trafford · Olympic Games · Over the Edge (1999) · PNC Park · Portman Road · Posting system · Premier League · Priestfield Stadium · Quietly Confident Quartet · Qwest Field · Ravenloft (module) · Rugby World Cup · Scotland national football team · Seattle Sounders FC · Second Test, 1948 Ashes series · Sheffield Wednesday F.C. · Stanley Cup · Stocksbridge Park Steels F.C. · SummerSlam (2003) · Sunday Times Golden Globe Race · Sunderland A.F.C. · Sydney Roosters · T206 Honus Wagner · Third Test, 1948 Ashes series · Toronto Raptors · Valley Parade · Wales national rugby union team · West Indian cricket team in England in 1988 · York City F.C. · York Park · Yorkshire captaincy affair of 1927 · Youngstown Ohio Works · Yukon Quest
Sport and recreation biography
Nick Adenhart · Sid Barnes · Shelton Benjamin · Moe Berg · Brian Booth · Luc Bourdon · Donald Bradman · Donald Bradman with the Australian cricket team in England in 1948 · Eric Brewer (ice hockey) · Martin Brodeur · Neil Brooks · Bill Brown (cricketer) · Steve Bruce · Simon Byrne · Rudolf Caracciola · Ian Chappell · CM Punk · Paul Collingwood · A. E. J. Collins · Ian Craig · Tim Duncan · Early life of Keith Miller · Bobby Eaton · Duncan Edwards · Ray Emery · Peter Evans (swimmer) · Nikita Filatov · Theoren Fleury · Adam Gilchrist · Michael Gomez · George H. D. Gossip · Wayne Gretzky · Orval Grove · Ron Hamence with the Australian cricket team in England in 1948 · Wally Hammond · Neil Harvey with the Australian cricket team in England in 1948 · Dominik Hašek · Lindsay Hassett with the Australian cricket team in England in 1948 · Thierry Henry · Clem Hill · Damon Hill · Art Houtteman · Karmichael Hunt · Roy Kilner · Jarome Iginla · Archie Jackson · Douglas Jardine · Ian Johnson (cricketer) · Keith Johnson (cricket administrator) · Magic Johnson · Michael Jordan · Masako Katsura · Susianna Kentikian · Mark Kerry · Bart King · Sandy Koufax · Cynna Kydd · Faith Leech · Trevor Linden · Ray Lindwall with the Australian cricket team in England in 1948 · Sam Loxton · Sam Loxton with the Australian cricket team in England in 1948 · Roberto Luongo · Charlie Macartney · Jack Marsh · Jimmy McAleer · William McGregor · Ian Meckiff · Bob Meusel · Keith Miller in the 1946–47 Australian cricket season · Keith Miller with the Australian cricket team in England in 1948 · Howie Morenz · Sandra Morgan · Arthur Morris · Stan Musial · Ian O'Brien · Kevin O'Halloran · Bill O'Reilly (cricketer) · Ben Paschal · Kevin Pietersen · Jacques Plante · Bill Ponsford · Alain Prost · Tom Pryce · Stamata Revithi · Wilfred Rhodes · J. R. Richard · Doug Ring with the Australian cricket team in England in 1948 · Mariano Rivera · Jackie Robinson · Bobby Robson · Bill Russell · Joe Sakic · Daniel Sedin · Henrik Sedin · Joel Selwood · Waisale Serevi · Gilberto Silva · Harbhajan Singh · Lee Smith (baseball) · Ozzie Smith · Paul Stastny · Hod Stuart · Don Tallon · Tiny Thompson · Ian Thorpe · Jim Thorpe · Mark Tonelli · Ernie Toshack · Ernie Toshack with the Australian cricket team in England in 1948 · Bert Trautmann · Marcus Trescothick · Harry Trott · Hugh Trumble · The Turk · Georges Vézina · John Wark · Tyrone Wheatley · Bob Windle · Yao Ming
Transport

Albert Bridge, London · American Airlines Flight 11 · American Airlines Flight 77 · Baker Street and Waterloo Railway · Baltimore Steam Packet Company · Battersea Bridge · Sophie Blanchard · Boeing 747 · Boeing 777 · BP Pedestrian Bridge · Lester Brain · Brill railway station · Brill Tramway · California State Route 78 · Capitol Loop · Central London Railway · Charing Cross, Euston and Hampstead Railway · Chelsea Bridge · Chickasaw Turnpike · Cincinnati, Lebanon and Northern Railway · City and South London Railway · Cogan House Covered Bridge · Don Valley Parkway · Eastern Suburbs & Illawarra railway line, Sydney · Federal Bridge Gross Weight Formula · Forksville Covered Bridge · General aviation in the United Kingdom · Gol Transportes Aéreos Flight 1907 · Great Northern, Piccadilly and Brompton Railway · Hellingly Hospital Railway · Hillsgrove Covered Bridge · Holden · Holden VE Commodore · Hours of service · Interstate 15 in Arizona · Interstate 355 · Interstate 68 · Interstate 70 in Colorado · Interstate 70 in Utah · John Bull (locomotive) · Kansas Turnpike · Kinzua Bridge · London congestion charge · LSWR N15 class · M-28 Business (Ishpeming–Negaunee, Michigan) · M-28 (Michigan highway) · M-35 (Michigan highway) · M62 motorway · Manchester Bolton & Bury Canal · Manila Light Rail Transit System · Manila Metro Rail Transit System · Maryland Route 36 · Maserati MC12 · Mass Rapid Transit (Singapore) · MTR · New Carissa · New York State Route 22 · New York State Route 28 · New York State Route 28N · New York State Route 32 · New York State Route 174 · New York State Route 175 · New York State Route 308 · New York State Route 311 · New York State Route 343 · New York State Route 373 · Niagara Falls Suspension Bridge · O-Bahn Busway · Pioneer Zephyr · Pulaski Skyway · Quainton Road railway station · Richmond Bridge, London · Ridge Route · Rogers Locomotive and Machine Works · Royal Blue (B&O train) · SECR K and SR K1 classes · SECR N class · SR Leader class · SR Merchant Navy class · SR West Country and Battle of Britain classes · SS Christopher Columbus · SS Dakotan · SS Kroonland · SS Mauna Loa · SS Minnesotan · SS Montanan · SS Ohioan (1914) · SS Pennsylvanian · SS Washingtonian · State Route 74 (New York – Vermont) · Sonestown Covered Bridge · Sweet Track · Talbot Tagora · Talyllyn Railway · Tunnel Railway · Underground Electric Railways Company of London · United Airlines Flight 93 · U.S. Route 40 Alternate (Keysers Ridge – Cumberland, Maryland) · U.S. Route 41 in Michigan · U.S. Route 491 · U.S. Route 50 in Nevada · Utah State Route 128 · Vauxhall Bridge · Waddesdon Road railway station · Wandsworth Bridge · Westcott railway station · Winter service vehicle · Wood Siding railway station · Wotton railway station
Video gaming

1080° Snowboarding · 4X · Agatha Christie: And Then There Were None · Agatha Christie: Murder on the Orient Express · Age of Empires · Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings · Age of Mythology · Alleyway · Aquaria (video game) · Arbiter (Halo) · The Beatles: Rock Band · BioShock · Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare · Castlevania: Aria of Sorrow · Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow · Characters of Final Fantasy VIII · Chrono Cross · Chrono Trigger · Conan (2007 video game) · Cortana · Crackdown · Crazy Taxi (series) · Crush (video game) · Development of The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion · Devil May Cry (video game) · Devil May Cry 2 · Devil May Cry 3: Dante's Awakening · Defense of the Ancients · Donkey Kong (video game) · The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind · Empires: Dawn of the Modern World · ESRB re-rating of The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion · F-Zero GX · Final Fantasy · Final Fantasy Tactics · Final Fantasy VI · Final Fantasy VIII · Final Fantasy IX · Final Fantasy X · Final Fantasy X-2 · Final Fantasy XI · Final Fantasy XII · Flood (Halo) · Flower (video game) · GameFAQs · Giants: Citizen Kabuto · Golden Sun · Grim Fandango · Guitar Hero (video game) · Half-Life 2: Episode One · Half-Life 2: Lost Coast · Halo: Combat Evolved · Halo 2 · Halo 3 · Halo 3: ODST · Halo Wars · Ico · Iridion 3D · Katamari Damacy · Kingdom Hearts · Kingdom Hearts (video game) · Kingdom Hearts: Chain of Memories · Kingdom Hearts II · Legacy of Kain: Soul Reaver · The Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask · The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time · The Legend of Zelda: Oracle of Seasons and Oracle of Ages · The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker · Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy · The Lord of the Rings: The Battle for Middle-earth II · Mana (series) · Marble Madness · Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games · Mario Power Tennis · Master Chief (Halo) · Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater · Metroid Prime · Metroid Prime 2: Echoes · Metroid Prime 3: Corruption · Midtown Madness · MissingNo. · Myst · Myst III: Exile · Myst IV: Revelation · Myst V: End of Ages · Mystical Ninja Starring Goemon · New Super Mario Bros. · Ninja Gaiden (Nintendo Entertainment System) · Ōkami · Pathways into Darkness · Perfect Dark · Planescape: Torment · Populous: The Beginning · Portal (video game) · Radical Dreamers: Nusumenai Hōseki · Rise and Fall: Civilizations at War · Riven · Sacrifice (video game) · Sam & Max: Freelance Police · Shadow of the Colossus · Shadow the Hedgehog (video game) · Silent Hill 4: The Room · The Simpsons Game · The Simpsons Hit & Run · Space Invaders · Spyro: Year of the Dragon · StarCraft · StarCraft: Ghost · Star Wars: Episode I: Battle for Naboo · Star Wars: Rogue Squadron · Super Columbine Massacre RPG! · Super Mario 64 · Super Nintendo Entertainment System · Super Smash Bros. Brawl · Super Smash Bros. Melee · System Shock · ToeJam & Earl · Turok: Dinosaur Hunter · Ultima Underworld: The Stygian Abyss · Uru: Ages Beyond Myst · Vagrant Story · Voyage: Inspired by Jules Verne · Wii · Wii Sports · Wipeout 3 · The World Ends with You
Warfare

13th Airborne Division (United States) · 2nd Canadian Infantry Division · 21st Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry · 22nd Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry · 3rd Battalion 3rd Marines · Australian Defence Force · Byzantine navy · Hispanic Americans in World War II · Maryland and Virginia Rifle Regiment · Midshipman · Military history of Puerto Rico · Military of the Democratic Republic of the Congo · No. 1 Wing RAAF · Structural history of the Roman military · Swedish allotment system · Timor Leste Defence Force · United States Marine Corps
Warfare matériel
AHS Centaur · Akutan Zero · Alaska class cruiser · Amagi class battlecruiser · AMX-30 · AMX-30E · Arena Active Protection System · Armament of the Iowa class battleship · Battleship · Bayern class battleship · Brazilian battleship Minas Geraes · Brazilian cruiser Bahia · Cannon · Courageous class battlecruiser · Derfflinger class battlecruiser · Design 1047 battlecruiser · Dreadnought · Dutch 1913 battleship proposal · Helgoland class battleship · HMAS Australia (1911) · HMS Ark Royal (91) · HMS Calliope (1884) · HMS Cardiff (D108) · HMS Endeavour · HMS Lion (1910) · HMAS Melbourne (R21) · HMS Royal Oak (08) · Horses in World War I · Indiana class battleship · Ironclad warship · Japanese aircraft carrier Kaga · Japanese battleship Haruna · Japanese battleship Tosa · Japanese battleship Yamato · Kaiser class battleship · König class battleship · Leopard 2E · Light Tank Mk VII Tetrarch · Lince (tank) · M249 light machine gun · McDonnell Douglas F-4 Phantom II · Moltke class battlecruiser · Montana class battleship · Nassau class battleship · North Carolina class battleship · Panzer I · Pre-dreadnought battleship · Rheinmetall 120 mm gun · Rivadavia class battleship · Russian battleship Slava · SM U-66 · SMS Baden (1915) · SMS Blücher · SMS Derfflinger · SMS Goeben · SMS Helgoland · SMS Hindenburg · SMS König · SMS Lützow · SMS Moltke · SMS Seydlitz · SMS Von der Tann · SMS Westfalen · Sovetsky Soyuz class battleship · T-26 tank · T-34 · TAM (tank) · Tanks in the Spanish Army · USS Connecticut (BB-18) · USS Congress (1799) · USS Constitution · USS Illinois (BB-65) · USS Indiana (BB-1) · USS Iowa (BB-61) · USS Iowa turret explosion · USS Kentucky (BB-66) · USS Massachusetts (BB-2) · USS Missouri (BB-63) · USS New Jersey (BB-62) · USS Nevada (BB-36) · USS President · USS Princess Matoika (ID-2290) · USS Orizaba (ID-1536) · USS Siboney (ID-2999) · USS West Bridge (ID-2888) · USS Wisconsin (BB-64) · Verdeja · Yamato class battleship
Wars, battles and events
1968 Thule Air Base B-52 crash · 1982 British Army Gazelle friendly fire incident · 1984 Rajneeshee bioterror attack · 1994 Black Hawk shootdown incident · 1994 Fairchild Air Force Base B-52 crash · 2007 United States Air Force nuclear weapons incident · Action of 1 August 1801 · Action of 13 January 1797 · Actions along the Matanikau · Admiralty Islands campaign · Anglo-Zanzibar War · Attack on Sydney Harbour · Axis naval activity in Australian waters · Battle for Henderson Field · Battle of Albuera · Battle of Arras (1917) · Battle of Austerlitz · Battle of Badr · Battle of Bardia · Battle of Barnet · Battle of Barrosa · Battle of Bicocca · Battle of Blenheim · Battle of Bosworth Field · Battle of Cannae · Battle of Cape Esperance · Battle of Ceresole · Battle of Concepción · Battle of Corydon · Battle of Dürenstein · Battle of Dyrrhachium (1081) · Battle of Dien Bien Phu · Battle of Edson's Ridge · Battle of Goliad · Battle of Gonzales · Battle of Grand Port · Battle of Greece · Battle of Khafji · Battle of Lipantitlán · Battle of Lissa (1811) · Battle of Midway · Battle of Morotai · Battle of Moscow · Battle of Musa Qala · Battle of Mount Austen, the Galloping Horse, and the Sea Horse · Battle of Osan · Battle of Pulo Aura · Battle of Quebec (1775) · Battle of Ramillies · Battle of Red Cliffs · Battle of Rennell Island · Battle of Savo Island · Battle of Schellenberg · Battle of Shiloh · Battle of Svolder · Battle of Taejon · Battle of Tassafaronga · Battle of the Alamo · Battle of The Cedars · Battle of the Coral Sea · Battle of the Eastern Solomons · Battle of the Gebora · Battle of the Nile · Battle of the Santa Cruz Islands · Battle of the Tenaru · Battle of Ticonderoga (1759) · Battle of Tippecanoe · Battle of Tory Island · Battle of Tulagi and Gavutu–Tanambogo · Battle of Valcour Island · Battle of Verrières Ridge · Battle of Villers-Bocage · Battle of Vimy Ridge · Battle of Winterthur (1799) · Bombing of Yawata (June 1944) · Boshin War · British anti-invasion preparations of World War II · Campaign history of the Roman military · Capture of Fort Ticonderoga · Carlson's patrol · Caspian expeditions of the Rus · Cleomenean War · Cologne War · Convoy GP55 · Corinthian War · Crawford expedition · Cretan War · Falaise pocket · Finnish Civil War · German occupation of Luxembourg in World War I · Glorious First of June · Grass Fight · Guadalcanal Campaign · Huế chemical attacks · Invasion of Tulagi (May 1942) · Italian War of 1521–1526 · Italian War of 1542–1546 · Koli Point action · Krulak Mendenhall mission · Landing at Nadzab · Lochry's Defeat · Matanikau Offensive · Military history of Australia during World War II · Morotai Mutiny · Mozambican War of Independence · Nagorno-Karabakh War · Naval Battle of Guadalcanal · Omaha Beach · Operation Brevity · Operation Camargue · Operation Charnwood · Operation Cobra · Operation Downfall · Operation Epsom · Operation Ke · Operation Perch · Operation Teardrop · Operation Ten-Go · Operation Tractable · Operation Uranus · Operation Varsity · Operation Wrath of God · Polish–Soviet War · Pontiac's War · Port Chicago disaster · Raid at Cabanatuan · Raising the Flag on Iwo Jima · Roman–Persian Wars · Second Ostend Raid · Siege of Godesberg · Siege of Malakand · Surrender of Japan · Take Ichi convoy · Third Battle of Kharkov · Third Servile War · Toledo War · Ulm Campaign · War against Nabis · War of the Bavarian Succession · War of the Fifth Coalition · War of the League of Cambrai · Western Front (World War I) · Yom Kippur War
Warfare biography
Ba Cut · Hovhannes Bagramyan · Thomas Baker (aviator) · Heinrich Bär · Prince Louis of Battenberg · Otto Becher · William Bostock · Juan Davis Bradburn · Raymond Brownell · Harry Chauvel · Harry Cobby · Adrian Cole (RAAF officer) · Thomas Crisp · Andrew Cunningham, 1st Viscount Cunningham of Hyndhope · Roderic Dallas · Tom Derrick · Hermann Detzner · Brian Eaton · Charles Eaton (RAAF officer) · Neil Hamilton Fairley · Karl Aloys zu Fürstenberg · Stanley Goble · Winfield Scott Hancock · Francis Harvey · Edmund Herring · Joe Hewitt (RAAF officer) · Peter Heywood · Brian Horrocks · Cedric Howell · Hastings Ismay, 1st Baron Ismay · George Jones (RAAF officer) · Albert Kesselring · Bruce Kingsbury · Le Quang Tung · Helmut Lent · John Lerew · Murray Maxwell · James Whiteside McCay · George B. McClellan · Frank McNamara (VC) · Walter Model · Werner Mölders · Fred Moosally · Harry Murray · James Newland · Bill Newton · Walter Peeler · Alexander Pentland · Arthur Percival · Pham Ngoc Thao · Edwin Taylor Pollock · Lazare Ponticelli · Frederick Scherger · Uriel Sebree · William Tecumseh Sherman · Issy Smith · Myles Standish · Ronald Niel Stuart · Paul Nobuo Tatsuguchi · Thrasybulus · Benjamin Franklin Tilley · Ton That Dinh · Edgar Towner · Johann von Klenau · Ellis Wackett · John Lloyd Waddy · Blair Wark · Henry Wells (general) · John Whittle · Richard Williams (RAAF officer) · Abu Musab al-Zarqawi